loose-notes/at_a_glance.md, before:

# MiniFate at a Glance

Sometimes it's hard to understand a game system one piece at a time,
especially in cases (like MiniFate) where those pieces are intimately
dependent on one another. This chapter is intended to provide a quick summary
of the entire system. It can easily be referred back to later, to see how
this-or-that detail fits into the broader context.

## The Premise

MiniFate is played with one game master (**GM**) and one or more players. Each
player takes the role of a player character (**PC**). The GM takes the role of
the world around the PCs, including its cast of non-player characters
(**NPCs**). The players and the GM work together to tell stories about the
adventures of the PCs. <!-- Rewrite this next section. --> The game is largely
played as a conversation, where the GM explains the situation, and the players
tell everyone how their PC reacts, and the GM decides and narrates how the
NPCs respond. Every now and again, dice are used to introduce an element of
tension and unpredictability into the story.

## Aspects

Aspects are short, improvised phrases about the in-game world written by the
players and the GM. They serve to emphasize an important point in the fiction
and give it mechanical weight. Aspects can be about PCs, NPCs, a character's
present situation, a broad theme of the story, and so on.

Aspects have four uses:

- Aspects can be invoked for bonuses on rolls by paying a fate point.
- Aspects can be compelled to create complications for PCs and NPCs in
  exchange for a fate point.
- Aspects bridge the gap between fiction and mechanics, by indicating the
  sorts of actions (and thus the sorts of rolls) that make sense.
- Aspects connect mechanics back to the fiction, by informing how the outcome
  of a roll should be narrated.

## Skills

Skills are used to make rolls by both PCs and NPCs. Each skill indicates a
character's proficiency in a broad category of actions, such as Agility or
Persuasion. The Skills chapter contains a default skill list of ten skills, as
well as guidelines for creating skill lists better suited to a specific
campaign setting.

The default value for a skill is 0. PCs start with their highest skill at 2.
The most advanced PC will have a single skill at 4.

## Fate Dice

A Fate die is a six-sided die where two sides show "+1", two sides show "-1",
and two sides show "0". For any single roll, four dice are thrown and the
results added together.

## Rolls

All rolls in MiniFate are made in the same way. The player rolls four Fate
dice and adds the outcome to the value of their PC's most relevant skill. The
GM rolls four fate dice and adds the outcome to the value of the opposing
NPC's most relevant skill (or, if no NPC is opposing the PC's action, a static
difficulty is used instead of rolling). The roll ends in favor of whoever's
result is higher.

In terms of mechanics, a roll can create an aspect, overcome an aspect, or
inflict stress on an NPC.

## Fate Points

Fate points are a resource of narrative control. Each player starts each play
session with a number of fate points equal to their PC's refresh value (which
starts at 2). Fate points are earned by accepting compels; that is, by
allowing the GM briefly take control of the PC's actions or inflict some
dramatically appropriate misfortune on the PC.  Fate points are spent to
invoke aspects, that is, to gain a dramatically appropriate bonus to a roll.
In either case, of course, "dramatically appropriate" is judged by aspects.

## Stress & Consequences

## Character Creation

<!-- NOTE: do both PCs and NPCs here? -->

## Character Advancement

## Comparison to Fate Core and FAE

MiniFate is heavily based on Fate Core and Fate Accelerated Edition (FAE).
However, there are notable differences:

- Skills in MiniFate are analogous to skills in Fate Core, but broader.  Skill
  lists in MiniFate are usually 10 skills, and at most 15, while the default
  Fate Core skill list is 18.
- MiniFate uses a single FAE-style stress track for both mental and physical
  stress.
- Compels have been reworked slightly. Players no longer need to spend a fate
  point to decline a compel. In addition, paying a fate point to declare a
  story detail now counts as compelling the GM.
- MiniFate does not use stunts. Instead, players have more freedom over their
  PCs' aspects, and are able to gain higher refresh values to invoke those
  aspects more often.
- MiniFate does not use extras. Examples of how to handle things traditionally
  ascribed to extras (magic, vehicles, weapons, and so on) are presented in
  the appendices.
- PCs in MiniFate begin with fewer aspects, a smaller skill pyramid, and lower
  refresh than a PC in Fate Core. However, they also advance much more
  quickly.

Commit message:

Pull forward some of my edits from 5 years ago
These never hit master, but maybe should have.

loose-notes/at_a_glance.md, after:

# MiniFate at a Glance

Sometimes it's hard to understand a game system one piece at a time,
especially in cases (like MiniFate) where those pieces are intimately
dependent on one another. This chapter is intended to provide a quick summary
of the entire system. It can easily be referred back to later, to see how
this-or-that detail fits into the broader context.

## The Premise

MiniFate is played with one game master (**GM**) and one or more players. Each
player takes the role of a player character (**PC**). The GM takes the role of
the world around the PCs, including its cast of non-player characters
(**NPCs**). The players and the GM work together to tell stories about the
adventures of the PCs. The GM generally stars with a description of the scene
and from there, the players and the GM improvise back and forth, with the
players narrating the actions of their PCs and the GM narrating the action of
their NPCs. Every now and again, dice are used to introduce an element of
tension and unpredictability into the story.

## Aspects

Aspects are short, improvised phrases about the in-game world written by the
players and the GM. They serve to emphasize an important point in the fiction
and give it mechanical weight. Aspects can be about PCs, NPCs, a character's
present situation, a broad theme of the story, and so on.

Aspects have four uses:

- Aspects can be invoked for bonuses on rolls by paying a fate point.
- Aspects can be compelled to create complications for PCs and NPCs in
  exchange for a fate point.
- Aspects bridge the gap between fiction and mechanics, by indicating the
  sorts of actions (and thus the sorts of rolls) that make sense.
- Aspects connect mechanics back to the fiction, by informing how the outcome
  of a roll should be narrated.

## Skills

Skills are used to make rolls by both PCs and NPCs. Each skill indicates a
character's proficiency in a broad category of actions, such as Agility or
Persuasion. The Skills chapter contains a default skill list of ten skills, as
well as guidelines for creating skill lists better suited to a specific
campaign setting.

The default value for a skill is 0. PCs start with their highest skill at 2.
The most advanced PC will have a single skill at 4.

## Fate Dice

A Fate die is a six-sided die where two sides show "+1", two sides show "-1",
and two sides show "0". For any single roll, four dice are thrown and the
results added together.

## Rolls

All rolls in MiniFate are made in the same way. The player throws four Fate
dice and adds the outcome to the value of their PC's most relevant skill. The
GM throws four fate dice and adds the outcome to the value of the opposing
NPC's most relevant skill (or, if no NPC is opposing the PC's action, a static
difficulty is used instead of rolling). The roll ends in favor of whoever's
result is higher.

In terms of mechanics, a roll can create an aspect, overcome an aspect, or
inflict stress on an NPC.

## Fate Points

Fate points are a resource of narrative control. Each player starts each play
session with a number of fate points equal to their PC's refresh value (which
starts at 2). Fate points are earned by accepting compels; that is, by
allowing the GM briefly take control of the PC's actions or inflict some
dramatically appropriate misfortune on the PC.  Fate points are spent to
invoke aspects, that is, to gain a dramatically appropriate bonus to a roll.
In either case, of course, "dramatically appropriate" is judged by aspects.

## Stress and Consequences



## Character Creation

At creation, PCs consist of two Aspect and a set of skills. The Aspects
describe who they are (their Concept Aspect) and what complicates their
adventures (their Trouble Aspect). Their skills give them mechanical weight
and allow them to interact with the world when there is a question as to if
they will succeed or fail. A PC also has three Stress Boxes, three
Consequences, and a Refresh of 2.

NPCs are similar to PCs, but are built to serve the interests of the story.
They have as many Aspects and skills as needed to perform their role in the
narrative, and are not constrained to follow the same creation and advancement
rules are PCs.

## Character Advancement

## Comparison to Fate Core and FAE

MiniFate is heavily based on Fate Core and Fate Accelerated Edition (FAE).
However, there are notable differences:

- Skills in MiniFate are analogous to skills in Fate Core, but broader.  Skill
  lists in MiniFate are usually 10 skills, and at most 15, while the default
  Fate Core skill list is 18.
- MiniFate uses a single FAE-style stress track for both mental and physical
  stress.
- Compels have been reworked slightly. Players no longer need to spend a fate
  point to decline a compel. In addition, paying a fate point to declare a
  story detail now counts as compelling the GM.
- MiniFate does not use stunts. Instead, players have more freedom over their
  PCs' aspects, and are able to gain higher refresh values to invoke those
  aspects more often.
- MiniFate does not use extras. Examples of how to handle things traditionally
  ascribed to extras (magic, vehicles, weapons, and so on) are presented in
  the appendices.
- PCs in MiniFate begin with fewer aspects, a smaller skill pyramid, and lower
  refresh than a PC in Fate Core. However, they also advance much more
  quickly.
