# Introduction

**MiniFate** is a roleplaying game that allows the players to tell a
collaborative story. It has just enough rules to help the group decide what
happens while staying out of the way of the narrative.

## A Guide to Roleplaying

MiniFate is played with one gamemaster (**GM**) and one or more **players**.
Each player takes on the role of a player character (**PC**) which they create
as the game begins. The GM plays the rest of the world around the PCs,
including its cast of non-player characters (**NPCs**), who could be anything
from from friendly space pirates to rival adventurers to hideous dungeon
monsters.

Together the group tells the story of the characters scene by scene. The GM
generally opens with a quick description and from there play proceeds
conversationally as the players and GM improvise back and forth. Players speak
as their PCs and describe their actions while the GM illustrates how the world
responds.

<!-- I want to include this out of character part, and I'd like to wrap it in
with "You can use questions to define the world..." But I don't have the right
way to do it yet. 

> Players can also ask questions of the GM or other players about the world
> 
> Players may also ask the GM for specific details to help them immerse themselves in the PCs' surroundings.

-->

There will come a point in the story where an action has a chance to fail in a
way that is narratively interesting. That is when the players turn to the
rules and dice. The rules mediate the divide between player and PC; PC choices
are made by the players while the outcome of PC actions is judged by dice.

PCs should be assumed to be competent though, a `Master swordsman` does not
role to see if he defeats the henchmen---of course he would---he roles to see
if he does it before the villain escapes, or without alerting the other
guards. <!-- I don't like this here, but I don't know where else it would go
an I think it's an important point. Maybe it goes in the place when we talk
about "aspects are true"? -->

MiniFate is a social game. As such, the most important element is
communication. The players and the GM are not opponents (even though the PCs
and NPCs may well be enemies). Everyone has the same goals: telling a good
story and having a good time. MiniFate uses **Aspects** to help the players
communicate their understanding of the world.

## Game Materials

MineFate doesn't require a lot to get started. Something to write with and
somewhere to write. Each player should have a character sheet where they
record their character's 

# Next...

Fate Core starts by going through the character sheet to introduce the ideas of aspects, skills, etc. For a short document, it's probably better to jump right in. Possible entry points:

- Character creation. Nest aspects and skills under.
- Aspects. They are always true! Short improvised statements.
- Skills. These are the numbers you use to roll dice.
