chapters/01-introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

<!-- TODO: Tighten this up. -->
**MiniFate** is a roleplaying game that allows the players to tell a
collaborative story. It has just enough rules to help the group decide what
happens while staying out of the way of the narrative. It is based on [_Fate
Core_][fate_core] and [_Fate Accelerated_][fae] by _Evil Hat_.

[fate_core]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/
[fae]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/

## Roleplaying with MiniFate

MiniFate is played with one gamemaster (*GM*) and one or more
*players*. Each player takes on the role of a player character
(*PC*) which they create as the game begins. The GM plays the rest of
the world around the PCs, including its cast of non-player characters
(*NPCs*), which could be anything from from friendly space pirates to
rival adventurers to hideous dungeon monsters.

The GM generally opens each scene with a quick description. Play proceeds
conversationally from there as the players and GM improvise back and forth.
Players speak as their PCs and describe their actions while the GM illustrates
how the world responds.

<!-- I want to include this out of character part, and I'd like to wrap it in
with "You can use questions to define the world..." But I don't have the right
way to do it yet.

> Players can also ask questions of the GM or other players about the world
>
> Players may also ask the GM for specific details to help them immerse themselves in the PCs' surroundings.

-->

From time to time, players will encounter a situation where a PC's failure
adds an interesting twist to the story. That's where the dice come in. Die
rolls mediate the divide between player and PC; PC choices are made by the
players while the outcome of PC actions are judged by dice.

MiniFate is a social game. As such, the most important element is
communication. The players and the GM are not opponents (even though the PCs
and NPCs may well be enemies). Everyone has the same goals: telling a good
story and having a good time. MiniFate uses *Aspects* to help the
players communicate their understanding of the world.

## Game Materials

MineFate doesn't require a lot to get started: pens to write with and paper to
record your character on, a set of Fate dice, and some tokens to represent
*Fate Points*.

Each player needs a character sheet. That's where they'll write down their
PC's skills and aspects, as well as any stress and consequences they pick up
along the way. The information contained on the sheet is updated as your PC
grows throughout the course of their adventures to reflect who they have
become. A sample character sheet is included at the end of these rules, but a
sheet of paper (or even a notecard) works fine in a pinch.

Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six-sided dice marked with
<img class="die-p"> on two sides, <img class="die-z"> on two sides, and
<img class="die-m"> on two sides. Each roll uses four dice. To keep things
moving quickly, it's best to have four dice for each player rather than passing
them back and forth.

Finally, you'll need a way to keep track of fate points. It's possible to
track them with tick marks on your character sheet, but much more satisfying
to physically pass something back and forth. Poker chips work well, as do
glass beads. You could even use stray polyhedral dice since you won't need
them in MiniFate.

Commit message:

Trying to "de-clunkify" the intro

chapters/01-introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

<!-- TODO: Tighten this up. -->
**MiniFate** is a roleplaying game for telling collaborative stories with your
friends. Do you want to play a group of rag-tag rebels fighting a galaxy-wide
empire? How about a group of hackers trying to free humanity from the clutches
of the machines we made? Or perhaps a group of fantasy adventurers trying to
destroy an ancient artifact to seal away a great evil? You can do all that
and more with MiniFate!

MiniFate builds a shared understanding of the game world through
aspects---short phrases the describe part of the narrative. Aspects allow all
the players to control the story, while dice help add an element of surprise
to keep the story exciting.

MiniFate is based on [_Fate Core_][fate_core] and [_Fate Accelerated_][fae] by
_Evil Hat_.

[fate_core]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/
[fae]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/

## Roleplaying with MiniFate

MiniFate is played with one gamemaster (*GM*) and one or more
*players*. Each player takes on the role of a player character
(*PC*) which they create as the game begins. The GM plays the rest of
the world around the PCs, including its cast of non-player characters
(*NPCs*), which could be anything from from friendly space pirates to
rival adventurers to hideous dungeon monsters.

The GM generally opens each scene with a quick description. Play proceeds
conversationally from there as the players and GM improvise back and forth.
Players speak as their PCs and describe their actions while the GM illustrates
how the world responds.

<!-- I want to include this out of character part, and I'd like to wrap it in
with "You can use questions to define the world..." But I don't have the right
way to do it yet.

> Players can also ask questions of the GM or other players about the world
>
> Players may also ask the GM for specific details to help them immerse themselves in the PCs' surroundings.

-->

From time to time, players will encounter a situation where a PC's failure
adds an interesting twist to the story. That's where the dice come in. Die
rolls mediate the divide between player and PC; PC choices are made by the
players while the outcome of PC actions are judged by dice.

MiniFate is a social game. As such, the most important element is
communication. The players and the GM are not opponents (even though the PCs
and NPCs may well be enemies). Everyone has the same goals: telling a good
story and having a good time. MiniFate uses *Aspects* to help the
players communicate their understanding of the world.

## Game Materials

MineFate doesn't require a lot to get started: pens to write with and paper to
record your character on, a set of Fate dice, and some tokens to represent
*Fate Points*.

Each player needs a character sheet. That's where they'll write down their
PC's skills and aspects, as well as any stress and consequences they pick up
along the way. The information contained on the sheet is updated as your PC
grows throughout the course of their adventures to reflect who they have
become. A sample character sheet is included at the end of these rules, but a
sheet of paper (or even a notecard) works fine in a pinch.

Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six-sided dice marked with
<img class="die-p"> on two sides, <img class="die-z"> on two sides, and
<img class="die-m"> on two sides. Each roll uses four dice. To keep things
moving quickly, it's best to have four dice for each player rather than passing
them back and forth.

Finally, you'll need a way to keep track of fate points. It's possible to
track them with tick marks on your character sheet, but much more satisfying
to physically pass something back and forth. Poker chips work well, as do
glass beads. You could even use stray polyhedral dice since you won't need
them in MiniFate.
