# Game Creation

Character creation and setting creation go hand-in-hand, because setting are
defined by their characters and characters by their setting. A **Pirate Captain
Who Hates Violence** in a world with **Magic Returning, Disrupting
Everything** is very different than one on the **Blood Drenched Sands of the
Caribbean**.

The game creation process should be collaborative, so it is often best to set
aside the first session in order to design the setting and the PCs as a group.
It is good to start with a very broad definition of the setting and then build
PCs, using their creation to find out more details of the setting.

## Setting

The setting of the story could be as large or small as needed. To start,
decide what kind of setting you want the story to take place in. Then use
Aspects to make the setting concrete. These Aspects will help get the group
all on the same page. Good hooks for Setting Aspects and some examples are:

- _Major Conflicts_: **Plucky Rebels Defend Their Home From A Galaxy-spanning
  Empire** or **An Ancient Evil Once Again Threatens the Reamls of Men, Dwarves,
  and Elves** 
- _Major Technology/Magic_: **Highschool Where Everyone Has
  Superpowers** or **In the Near Future, Cybernetics Let Anyone Improve
  Themselves for A Price**
- _Major Themes_: **In the Darkness of the Far Future, Humanity Fights for
  Survival** or **The Mob Runs This Town**.
- _Major Groups_: **A Starship Crew Boldly Explores the Galaxy** or **A
  Shadowy Government Agency Hides Magic from Normal People**

Write as many or as few Aspects as you need to define your setting and so
everyone understands what does and does not belong in it. You can always
update these Aspects later, including once the game has started, as the
setting changes in response to changes in the narrative.

### Scenes

Your game will take place across a number of scenes. Just as with your overall
setting, each scene will have one or more Aspects that describes it. The GM
will generally create these Aspects as they are describing the scene to the
players. Some examples: **An Alien Bar Where The Authorities Dare Not Tread**,
**The Mob's Docks At Midnight**, or **An Ancient Fortification Surrounded by
Orcs**.

Just as with Setting Aspects, Scene Aspects can be changed or updated as play
proceeds to reflect changes in the narrative.

## Characters

PCs in MiniFate are mechanically simple but narratively diverse. Starting PCs
have of two Aspects---their Concept and Trouble---and a set of skills.
Additionally, all PCs have three Stress Boxes, three Consequences, and a
Refresh of 2. Aspects and Skills are covered in depth later.

### Concept

Creating a PC begins with coming up with their Concept, which is an Aspect
that describes broadly who the PC is and why they are unique, exciting people
that we care about. Some example high concepts are: **Backwater Farmboy
Looking to Join The Academy**, **Rightful King of Gondor**

<!-- Add examples, perhaps from the example characters? -->

### Trouble

The PC's second Aspect is their Trouble; it describes the sort of things that
get in the PC's way and make their story interesting. The trouble Aspect
should not necessarily be the thing that is most likely to cause the PC
trouble, especially if it would be boring to deal with in game.  Instead, a
PC's trouble Aspect is a good way for the player to indicate what sort of
problems they would find interesting to deal with.

A hardboiled detective might drink excessively, but **Can't Resist a Drink**
might not add much roleplaying potential, whereas **Softspot for Losers Like
Me** offers the GM and other players a lot of story hooks.

<!-- TODO: Add examples, perhaps from the example characters? -->

### Skills

Skills give PCs mechanical weight and allow them to interact with the game
world. PCs begin with one skill at rank +2, and two skills at rank +1.

A default list of skills is provided later, but generating a set of skills is
a key part of game creation as it helps define what actions that characters
will be taking.

### Refresh

A PC's Refresh determines how many Fate Points they start each session with.
PCs begin with a refresh of 2.

### Stress and Consequences

Stress Boxes and Consequences represent how a PC is effected by various forms
of harm. PCs begin with three stress boxes, and three consequences (labeled
Mild, Moderate, and Severe).

