chapters/03-character-creation.md, before:

# Character Creation

<!-- TODO: Example characters?

- Captain Ahab
- Captain Nemo
- Dracula
- Jean Valjean
- King Arthur
- Merlin
- Robin Hood
- Mulan

-->

<!-- TODO: This paragraph is clunky but important. Rewrite. -->

PCs in MiniFate are mechanically simple but narratively diverse. Starting PCs
have of two Aspects---their Concept and Trouble---and a set of skills. All PCs
have three Stress Boxes, three Consequences, and a Refresh of 2. Aspects and
Skills are covered in depth later.

<!-- TODO: integrate this and remove redundancy -->
On the last page you'll find a character sheet. All PCs have a refresh score,
stress boxes, and consequences---more on those later. To create your PC, you
need to come up with two aspects and three skills.

## Concept

<!-- TODO: Rewrite this to avoid ?". -->
Your Concept is the thing you would tell someone when they ask "Who are you
playing?". It is an Aspect that describes broadly who the PC is and why
they are unique, exciting people that we care about. Some example Concepts
are: **Backwater Farm Boy Looking to Join The Academy**, **Rightful
King Hiding in the Wild**, or **Master Swordsman Looking to Avenge His
Father**.

## Trouble

<!-- TODO: It's ok (even good!) if your Concept sometimes causes you trouble. It's
ok (even good!) if your trouble sometimes works to your benefit. The whole
point of aspects is that they prompt the players to riff off each other in fun
and unexpected ways.-->

<!-- TODO: Can we make this POP as much as the first sentence above? -->
The PC's second Aspect is their Trouble; it describes the sort of things that
get in the PC's way and make their story interesting. The trouble Aspect
should not necessarily be the thing that is most likely to cause the PC
trouble, especially if it would be boring to deal with in game.  Instead, a
PC's trouble Aspect is a good way for the player to indicate what sort of
problems they would find interesting to deal with.

A hardboiled detective might drink excessively, but **Can't Resist a
Drink** might not add much roleplaying potential, whereas **Soft Spot for
Losers Like Me** offers the GM and other players a lot of story hooks.

Some example Troubles are: **I Don't Know Which Side I'm On**,
**Everyone I Get Close To Ends Up In Trouble**, or **My Past Is A
Dangerous Mystery; Even to Me**.

## Skills

Skills give PCs mechanical weight and allow them to interact with the game
world. PCs begin with one skill at rank +2, and two skills at rank +1.

| Skill       | Used For                                                            |
|:------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Agility     | Climbing, dodging, moving, including mounts and vehicles            |
| Fight       | Engaging in armed and unarmed melee combat                          |
| Insight     | Searching, tracking, finding, noticing, knowing                     |
| Network     | Knowing people, having access to things, having items on you        |
| Performance | Lying, singing, dancing, disguising                                 |
| Persuasion  | Negotiating, bargaining, flattering, empathizing                    |
| Physique    | Lifting, smashing, resisting poison and exposure                    |
| Shoot       | Attacking with ranged and thrown weapons                            |
| Stealth     | Hiding, moving silently, concealing objects on your person          |
| Tinker      | Picking locks, disarming traps, hacking computers, repairing things |

A default list of skills is provided later, but generating a set of skills is
a key part of game creation as it helps to define what actions the PCs will
take in response to the story.

> It is time to put together our pirate PCs. The first is Tor Byorn Yorgensen,
> a former sky-boat captain and now first mate of the _Angry Pig_. He prefers
> talking to fighting, but when it comes time for swords to be drawn he is
> monster with his magical axe. His two aspects are:
>
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>  Concept: **Speak Softly and Carry a Magic Axe**
>  Trouble: **Lost My Boat in a Game of Cards**
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>
> The captain of the _Angry Pig_ is Naka of Three Bridges, an Orc outcast from
> her clan do to he affinity for fire magic, and who uses it liberally to keep
> her mutinous crew in line.
>
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>  Concept: **Never Met A Problem I Couldn't Ignite**
>  Trouble: **I Can't Trust My Crew or My Clan**
> --------- ------------------------------------------------

## Advancement

<!-- TODO: Do we need this here? -->

## Non-Player Characters

<!-- TODO: Write this. -->

<!-- TODO: Do groups go here? -->


## Mechanical Stuff <!-- TODO: This moves to another section, right? -->

A PC's Refresh determines how many Fate Points they start each session with.
PCs begin with a refresh of 2. <!-- TODO: Does this change? -->

### Stress and Consequences

<!-- TODO: Do these numbers change? -->
PCs begin with three stress boxes and three consequences. When a PC is harmed
from losing a Skills contest (covered in the Skills section) they check off
their Stress Boxes. If no Stress Boxes remain, they must instead write a new
Aspect for their character in one of the consequences slots.

Each level of consequence is more impactful and lasts for longer. Here are the
guidelines:

<!-- TODO: Can we just number consequences? -->
<!-- TODO: Can we nail down how long they last? Have we defined "Session". -->

_Mild_: Recovers in a scene or two and does not impact the PCs function much.
Generally the PC will have to spend a small amount of attention to fix it.
Examples are: **Covered in Alien Slime** or **Dropped My Gun**.

_Moderate_: Recovers after many scenes, and impacts the PCs ability to use
some skills as effectively as before. Examples are: **They Stole My
Father's Sword** or **Out Of Ammo**.

_Severe_: Recovery will involve actively working to fix it over several game
sessions and the effects may linger for a long time. In the moment the PC is
severely limited by it. This consequence is likely the most pressing thing for
the PC to deal with while it exists. Examples include: **They Sundered
My Family's Magic Shield** or **My Personality Split In Two**.

Commit message:

Add skills, remove used text from notes

chapters/03-character-creation.md, after:

# Character Creation

<!-- TODO: Example characters?

- Captain Ahab
- Captain Nemo
- Dracula
- Jean Valjean
- King Arthur
- Merlin
- Robin Hood
- Mulan

-->

<!-- TODO: This paragraph is clunky but important. Rewrite. -->

PCs in MiniFate are mechanically simple but narratively diverse. Starting PCs
have of two Aspects---their Concept and Trouble---and a set of skills. All PCs
have three Stress Boxes, three Consequences, and a Refresh of 2. Aspects and
Skills are covered in depth later.

<!-- TODO: integrate this and remove redundancy -->
On the last page you'll find a character sheet. All PCs have a refresh score,
stress boxes, and consequences---more on those later. To create your PC, you
need to come up with two aspects and three skills.

## Concept

<!-- TODO: Rewrite this to avoid ?". -->
Your Concept is the thing you would tell someone when they ask "Who are you
playing?". It is an Aspect that describes broadly who the PC is and why
they are unique, exciting people that we care about. Some example Concepts
are: **Backwater Farm Boy Looking to Join The Academy**, **Rightful
King Hiding in the Wild**, or **Master Swordsman Looking to Avenge His
Father**.

## Trouble

<!-- TODO: It's ok (even good!) if your Concept sometimes causes you trouble. It's
ok (even good!) if your trouble sometimes works to your benefit. The whole
point of aspects is that they prompt the players to riff off each other in fun
and unexpected ways.-->

<!-- TODO: Can we make this POP as much as the first sentence above? -->
The PC's second Aspect is their Trouble; it describes the sort of things that
get in the PC's way and make their story interesting. The trouble Aspect
should not necessarily be the thing that is most likely to cause the PC
trouble, especially if it would be boring to deal with in game.  Instead, a
PC's trouble Aspect is a good way for the player to indicate what sort of
problems they would find interesting to deal with.

A hardboiled detective might drink excessively, but **Can't Resist a
Drink** might not add much roleplaying potential, whereas **Soft Spot for
Losers Like Me** offers the GM and other players a lot of story hooks.

Some example Troubles are: **I Don't Know Which Side I'm On**,
**Everyone I Get Close To Ends Up In Trouble**, or **My Past Is A
Dangerous Mystery; Even to Me**.

## Skills

Skills give PCs mechanical weight and allow them to interact with the game
world. PCs begin with one skill at rank +2, and two skills at rank +1.

| Skill       | Used For                                                            |
|:------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Agility     | Climbing, dodging, moving, including mounts and vehicles            |
| Fight       | Engaging in armed and unarmed melee combat                          |
| Insight     | Searching, tracking, finding, noticing, knowing                     |
| Network     | Knowing people, having access to things, having items on you        |
| Performance | Lying, singing, dancing, disguising                                 |
| Persuasion  | Negotiating, bargaining, flattering, empathizing                    |
| Physique    | Lifting, smashing, resisting poison and exposure                    |
| Shoot       | Attacking with ranged and thrown weapons                            |
| Stealth     | Hiding, moving silently, concealing objects on your person          |
| Tinker      | Picking locks, disarming traps, hacking computers, repairing things |

A default list of skills is provided later, but generating a set of skills is
a key part of game creation as it helps to define what actions the PCs will
take in response to the story.

> It is time to put together our pirate PCs. The first is Tor Byorn Yorgensen,
> a former sky-boat captain and now first mate of the _Angry Pig_. He prefers
> talking to fighting, but when it comes time for swords to be drawn he is
> monster with his magical axe. His two aspects are:
>
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>  Concept: **Speak Softly and Carry a Magic Axe**
>  Trouble: **Lost My Boat in a Game of Cards**
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>
> His Skills are:
>
> ---- ------------------------------------------------
>  +2  _Fight_
>  +1  _Persuasion_, _Agility_ <!-- Do we want duplicates? -->
> ---- ------------------------------------------------
>
> The captain of the _Angry Pig_ is Naka of Three Bridges, an Orc exiled from
> her clan do to he affinity for fire magic, and who uses it liberally to keep
> her mutinous crew in line.
>
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>  Concept: **Never Met A Problem My Magic Couldn't Ignite**
>  Trouble: **Can't Trust My Crew or My Clan**
> --------- ------------------------------------------------
>
> Her skills are:
>
> ---- ------------------------------------------------
>  +2  _Shoot_
>  +1  _Agility_, _Performance_
> ---- ------------------------------------------------

## Advancement

<!-- TODO: Do we need this here? -->

## Non-Player Characters

<!-- TODO: Write this. -->

<!-- TODO: Do groups go here? -->


## Mechanical Stuff <!-- TODO: This moves to another section, right? -->

A PC's Refresh determines how many Fate Points they start each session with.
PCs begin with a refresh of 2. <!-- TODO: Does this change? -->

### Stress and Consequences

<!-- TODO: Do these numbers change? -->
PCs begin with three stress boxes and three consequences. When a PC is harmed
from losing a Skills contest (covered in the Skills section) they check off
their Stress Boxes. If no Stress Boxes remain, they must instead write a new
Aspect for their character in one of the consequences slots.

Each level of consequence is more impactful and lasts for longer. Here are the
guidelines:

<!-- TODO: Can we just number consequences? -->
<!-- TODO: Can we nail down how long they last? Have we defined "Session". -->

_Mild_: Recovers in a scene or two and does not impact the PCs function much.
Generally the PC will have to spend a small amount of attention to fix it.
Examples are: **Covered in Alien Slime** or **Dropped My Gun**.

_Moderate_: Recovers after many scenes, and impacts the PCs ability to use
some skills as effectively as before. Examples are: **They Stole My
Father's Sword** or **Out Of Ammo**.

_Severe_: Recovery will involve actively working to fix it over several game
sessions and the effects may linger for a long time. In the moment the PC is
severely limited by it. This consequence is likely the most pressing thing for
the PC to deal with while it exists. Examples include: **They Sundered
My Family's Magic Shield** or **My Personality Split In Two**.
