# Characters

PCs in MiniFate are mechanically simple but narratively diverse. Starting PCs
have of two Aspects---their Concept and Trouble---and a set of skills. All PCs
have three Stress Boxes, three Consequences, and a Refresh of 2. Aspects and
Skills are covered in depth later.

### Concept

Creating a PC begins with coming up with their Concept. The Concept is an
Aspect that describes broadly who the PC is and why they are unique, exciting
people that we care about. Some example Concepts are: \aspect{Backwater Farm
Boy Looking to Join The Academy}, \aspect{Rightful King of Gondor}, or
\aspect{Master Swordsman Looking to Avenge His Father}.

Your Concept is the thing you would tell someone first when they ask "Who are
you playing?". It helps to keep in mind what sort of story hooks would be
associated with it.

### Trouble

The PC's second Aspect is their Trouble; it describes the sort of things that
get in the PC's way and make their story interesting. The trouble Aspect
should not necessarily be the thing that is most likely to cause the PC
trouble, especially if it would be boring to deal with in game.  Instead, a
PC's trouble Aspect is a good way for the player to indicate what sort of
problems they would find interesting to deal with.

A hardboiled detective might drink excessively, but \aspect{Can't Resist a
Drink} might not add much roleplaying potential, whereas \aspect{Softspot for
Losers Like Me} offers the GM and other players a lot of story hooks.

Some example Troubles are: \aspect{I Don't Know Which Side I'm On},
\aspect{Everyone I Get Close To Ends Up In Trouble}, or \aspect{My Past Is A
Dangerous Mystery; Even to Me}.

### Skills

Skills give PCs mechanical weight and allow them to interact with the game
world. PCs begin with one skill at rank +2, and two skills at rank +1.

A default list of skills is provided later, but generating a set of skills is
a key part of game creation as it helps to define what actions the PCs will
take in response to the story.

### Refresh

A PC's Refresh determines how many Fate Points they start each session with.
PCs begin with a refresh of 2.

### Stress and Consequences

Stress Boxes and Consequences represent how a PC is affected by various forms
of harm. PCs begin with three stress boxes and three consequences (labeled
Mild, Moderate, and Severe). When a PC is harmed from losing a Skills contest
(covered in the Skills section) they check off their Stress Boxes. If no
Stress Boxes remain, they must instead write a new Aspect for their character
in one of the consequences slots.

Each level of consequence is more impactful and lasts for longer. Here are the
guidelines:

- _Mild_: Recovers in a scene or two and does not impact the PCs function
  much. Generally the PC will have to spend a small amount of attention to fix
  it. Examples are: \aspect{Bloody Nose}, \aspect{Exhausted}, or
  \aspect{Dropped My Gun}.
- _Moderate_: Recovers after many scenes, and impacts the PCs ability to use
  some skills as effectively as before. Examples are: \aspect{They Stole My
  Father's Sword}, \aspect{Depressed}, \aspect{Out Of Ammo}.
- _Severe_: Recovery will involve actively working to fix it over several game
  sessions and the effects may linger for a long time. In the moment the PC is
  severely limited by it. This consequence is likely the most pressing thing
  for the PC to deal with while it exists. Examples include: \aspect{My Bloody
  Arm Is Off}, \aspect{They Sundered My Family's Magic Shield}, \aspect{My
  Personality Split In Two}.
