chapters/aspects_and_fate_points.md, before:

# Aspects and Fate Points

## Aspects

An Aspect is a short phrase written about the in-game world by a player or the
GM. Some Aspects are attached to characters, allowing the player or GM to
express in their own words what makes the character unique and interesting.
Other Aspects refer to the world around the characters, or the story taking
place in it; an Aspect can be a detail within the current scene, a summary of
the overarching plot arc, or literally any other phrase that the players or GM
find pertinent.

Aspects are the heart and soul of MiniFate. They have four roles, each of
which is crucial to the game (and each of which will be explained in detail
later):

- **Aspects can be invoked for bonuses on rolls.** For example, if a roll goes
  poorly while Eyegor is trying to sneak past some guards, he could pay a fate
  point to invoke **Dark and Stormy Night** to improve the roll. It makes
  sense that the dark would work to his advantage.
- **Aspects can be compelled to create engaging plot twists and complications.**
  For example, **blah blah blah**.
- **Aspects are always true, so they govern the sorts of play that make
  sense.**
  For example, if Tor Byorn is **Grappled**, it wouldn't make sense for him to
  run away, swing his hammer, or do anything else that requires free movement
  until he escaped the grapple.
- **Aspects can be used to flavor character skills and rolls, called
  Aspect-Based Narration.** The _Shoot_ skill applies to all manner of
  projectiles, from arrows to javelins to magic attacks. **SAMPLE
  SORCERESS**'s Aspect **PYROMANCER Aspect** indicates that when she rolls
  Shoot, she's probably doing so to throw a fireball... and that she probably
  can't make any Shoot rolls if her fire magic is somehow suppressed.

Each character is created with two Aspects (see the character creation rules
in chapter **X**). The player can use these Aspects to showcase whatever they
feel is important about their character, such as their job (**Deep-Woods
Lumberjack**), something important they carry (**Crown of a Deposed King**),
what motivates them (**Lord Kellett Will Pay for the Greywood Massacre**), the
sort of trouble they tend to get into (**Owes a Lot to the Wrong People**),
and so on. These Aspects serve to introduce the character to the rest of the
table. Characters gain more Aspects as time goes on, in order to illustrate
their growth and the new relationships they form (as discussed in the
character advancement rules in chapter **Y**).  <!--TODO: Can they really
showcase whatever they want at creation if we have a high concept and trouble
aspect?-->

### Story Aspects

Any Aspect not attached to a character is a story Aspect. Like character
Aspects, story Aspects are always true; unlike those Aspects, story Aspects
are dynamic. Creating an effect in the fiction is synonymous with creating a
story Aspect. Reversing that effect destroys the Aspect.

Story Aspects can be introduced by the GM to help set a scene; for example, it
may bear noting that **It's Raining Hard** or that **Everyone Seems On-Edge**.
They can also be created as a result of skill rolls during gameplay. Quenching
a campfire can create **Pitch Blackness**; wrestling someone to the ground
creates **Grappled**.

The destruction of Aspects is similar. They can be destroyed manually by
rolling; if a roll is made to break a grapple, the **Grappled** Aspect is
destroyed. Story Aspects also are destroyed when they are no longer relevant,
or no longer make sense. When the sun rises, **Pitch Blackness** is destroyed.

### Hidden Aspects

Most character and story Aspects are visible to everyone at the table, but not
all of them. The GM may choose to keep some Aspects hidden.  Obvious examples
include monster weaknesses (**Missing Scale Over His Heart**), imminent
ambushes (**Those Bushes Look Suspiciously Like Orcs**), and the schemes and
motivations of NPCs (**Lord Grofhurst Is My Unknowing Puppet**). Hidden
Aspects serve more or less as the GM's notes; if invoked or compelled, they
must be revealed to everyone.

Sometimes the story revolves around an NPC with a secret or a hidden
motivation that should be revealed slowly. In this case, it is often best to
start with slightly suspicious public Aspects and then change them as the
players catch on.

> Lord Kellett is a Dragon using his magic to masquerade as the human general
> of the Empire's armies. He starts with the Aspect **Strong as Ten Men**
> which indicates his incredible strength, but is poetic enough to be
> overlooked.  Later, as the PCs observe him performing more and more
> superhuman feats, his Aspect changes to **No Man Could Be As Strong**, still
> indicating his strength, but hinting more directly at its hidden origins.
> Finally, when the players discover his true nature, his aspect is replaced
> with **Strength of a Dragon**.

## Fate Points

Fate Points are a currency that can be spent to assert narrative control
over the game. Both the players and the GM have pools of Fate Points available
to use. Players start each session with a number of Fate Points equal to their
character's Refresh; the GM start each scene with as many Fate Points as there
are PCs.

Fate Points are spent to do one of two things:

1. Invoke an Aspect
2. Create an Aspect

### Invoking Aspects

### Creating Aspects

Creating Aspects gives the Players a chance to narrate a story detail.

Commit message:

Adding rules about invoking aspects

chapters/aspects_and_fate_points.md, after:

# Aspects and Fate Points

## Aspects

An Aspect is a short phrase written about the in-game world by a player or the
GM. Some Aspects are attached to characters, allowing the player or GM to
express in their own words what makes the character unique and interesting.
Other Aspects refer to the world around the characters, or the story taking
place in it; an Aspect can be a detail within the current scene, a summary of
the overarching plot arc, or literally any other phrase that the players or GM
find pertinent.

Aspects are the heart and soul of MiniFate. They have four roles, each of
which is crucial to the game (and each of which will be explained in detail
later):

- **Aspects can be invoked for bonuses on rolls.** For example, if a roll goes
  poorly while Eyegor is trying to sneak past some guards, he could pay a fate
  point to invoke **Dark and Stormy Night** to improve the roll. It makes
  sense that the dark would work to his advantage.
- **Aspects can be compelled to create engaging plot twists and complications.**
  For example, **blah blah blah**.
- **Aspects are always true, so they govern the sorts of play that make
  sense.**
  For example, if Tor Byorn is **Grappled**, it wouldn't make sense for him to
  run away, swing his hammer, or do anything else that requires free movement
  until he escaped the grapple.
- **Aspects can be used to flavor character skills and rolls, called
  Aspect-Based Narration.** The _Shoot_ skill applies to all manner of
  projectiles, from arrows to javelins to magic attacks. **SAMPLE
  SORCERESS**'s Aspect **PYROMANCER Aspect** indicates that when she rolls
  Shoot, she's probably doing so to throw a fireball... and that she probably
  can't make any Shoot rolls if her fire magic is somehow suppressed.

Each character is created with two Aspects (see the character creation rules
in chapter **X**). The player can use these Aspects to showcase whatever they
feel is important about their character, such as their job (**Deep-Woods
Lumberjack**), something important they carry (**Crown of a Deposed King**),
what motivates them (**Lord Kellett Will Pay for the Greywood Massacre**), the
sort of trouble they tend to get into (**Owes a Lot to the Wrong People**),
and so on. These Aspects serve to introduce the character to the rest of the
table. Characters gain more Aspects as time goes on, in order to illustrate
their growth and the new relationships they form (as discussed in the
character advancement rules in chapter **Y**).

<!--TODO: Can they really showcase whatever they want at creation if we have a
high concept and trouble aspect?-->

### Story Aspects

Any Aspect not attached to a character is a story Aspect. Like character
Aspects, story Aspects are always true; unlike those Aspects, story Aspects
are dynamic. Creating an effect in the fiction is synonymous with creating a
story Aspect. Reversing that effect destroys the Aspect.

Story Aspects can be introduced by the GM to help set a scene; for example, it
may bear noting that **It's Raining Hard** or that **Everyone Seems On-Edge**.
They can also be created as a result of skill rolls during gameplay. Quenching
a campfire can create **Pitch Blackness**; wrestling someone to the ground
creates **Grappled**.

The destruction of Aspects is similar. They can be destroyed manually by
rolling; if a roll is made to break a grapple, the **Grappled** Aspect is
destroyed. Story Aspects also are destroyed when they are no longer relevant,
or no longer make sense. When the sun rises, **Pitch Blackness** is destroyed.

### Hidden Aspects

Most character and story Aspects are visible to everyone at the table, but not
all of them. The GM may choose to keep some Aspects hidden.  Obvious examples
include monster weaknesses (**Missing Scale Over His Heart**), imminent
ambushes (**Those Bushes Look Suspiciously Like Orcs**), and the schemes and
motivations of NPCs (**Lord Grofhurst Is My Unknowing Puppet**). Hidden
Aspects serve more or less as the GM's notes; if invoked or compelled, they
must be revealed to everyone.

Sometimes the story revolves around an NPC with a secret or a hidden
motivation that should be revealed slowly. In this case, it is often best to
start with slightly suspicious public Aspects and then change them as the
players catch on.

> Lord Kellett is a Dragon using his magic to masquerade as the human general
> of the Empire's armies. He starts with the Aspect **Strong as Ten Men**
> which indicates his incredible strength, but is poetic enough to be
> overlooked.  Later, as the PCs observe him performing more and more
> superhuman feats, his Aspect changes to **No Man Could Be As Strong**, still
> indicating his strength, but hinting more directly at its hidden origins.
> Finally, when the players discover his true nature, his aspect is replaced
> with **Strength of a Dragon**.

## Fate Points

Fate Points are a currency that can be spent to assert narrative control
over the game. Both the players and the GM have pools of Fate Points available
to use. Players start each session with a number of Fate Points equal to their
character's Refresh; the GM start each scene with as many Fate Points as there
are PCs.

Fate Points are spent to do one of two things:

1. Invoke an Aspect
2. Create an Aspect

### Invoking Aspects

Fate Points can be spent to invoke Aspects for bonuses to rolls. To do so, the
player or GM spends a Fate Point, explains how one of the Aspects in play
would help the character making the roll or hinder their opponents, and then
either adds +2 to the result of the roll or re-rolls all four of their dice.
The group should agree that the aspect is applicable, with the GM being the
final arbiter.

Players may spend Fate points to invoke Aspects for their own rolls or for the
rolls of other players if they have that player's permission.  The GM may
spend Fate Points to invoke Aspects on rolls he makes for his NPCs.  Once an
Aspect is invoked, the player who is rolling the dice decides if they are
going to use it to re-roll or to take a +2.

Multiple Aspects can be invoked on the same roll, although each specific
aspect can only be invoked once per roll. Aspects need not be invoked all at
once; the result of a roll can be determined before and Aspect is invoked to
modify it, and the result of that modification can be determined before
additional invocations are decided on.

<!-- TODO: Make it clear that "re-rolling" the dice doesn't make it a new
roll. Maybe we need a new word? Action? -->

If both sides of a roll are invoking Aspects (for example, the player for
their PC, and the GM for their NPC)...
<!-- TODO: How does this work? Can each invoke the same aspect? -->

### Creating Aspects

Creating Aspects gives the Players a chance to narrate a story detail.
