# Aspects and Fate Points

An aspect is a short phrase written about the in-game world by a
player or the GM. Some aspects are attached to characters, allowing
the player or GM to express in their own words what makes the
character unique and interesting. Other aspects refer to the world
around the characters, or the story taking place in it; an aspect can
be a detail within the current scene, a summary of the overarching
plot arc, or literally any other phrase that the players or GM find
pertinent.

Aspects are the heart and soul of MiniFate. They have four roles, each
of which is crucial to the game (and each of which will be explained
in detail later):
- Aspects can be invoked for bonuses on rolls. For example, if a roll
goes poorly while **EXAMPLE ROGUE** is trying to sneak past some
guards, **HE/SHE** could pay a fate point to invoke **Dark and Stormy
Night** to improve the roll. It makes sense that the dark would work
to **HIS/HER** advantage.
- Aspects can be compelled to create engaging plot twists and
complications. For example, **blah blah blah**.
- Aspects are always true, so they govern the sorts of play that make
sense. For example, if **SAMPLE** is **Grappled**, it wouldn't make
sense for **HIM/HER** to run away, fire an arrow, or do anything else
that requires free movement until **HE/SHE** escaped the grapple.
- Aspects can be used to flavor character skills and rolls, called
Aspect-Based Narration. The Shoot skill applies to all manner of
projectiles, from arrows to javelins to magic attacks. **SAMPLE
SORCERESS**'s aspect **PYROMANCER ASPECT** indicates that when she
rolls Shoot, she's probably doing so to throw a fireball... and that
she probably can't make any Shoot rolls if her fire magic is somehow
suppressed.

Each character is created with two aspects (see the character creation
rules in chapter **X**). The player can use these aspects to showcase
whatever they feel is important about their character, such as their
job (**Deep-Woods Lumberjack**), something important they carry
(**example**), what motivates them (**example**), the sort of trouble
they tend to get into (**example**), and so on. These aspects serve to
introduce the character to the rest of the table. Characters gain more
aspects as time goes on, in order to illustrate their growth and the
new relationships they form (as discussed in the character advancement
rules in chapter **Y**).

Any aspect not attached to a character is a story aspect. Like
character aspects, story aspects are always true; unlike those
aspects, story aspects are dynamic. Creating an effect in the fiction
is synonymous with creating a story aspect. Reversing that effect
destroys the aspect.

Story aspects can be introduced by the GM to help set a scene; for
example, it may bear noting that **It's Raining** or that **Everyone
Seems On-Edge**. They can also be created as a result of skill rolls
during gameplay. Quenching a campfire can create **Pitch Blackness**;
wrestling someone to the ground creates **Grappled**.

The destruction of aspects is similar. They can be destroyed manually
by rolling; if a roll is made to break a grapple, the **Grappled**
aspect is destroyed. Story aspects also are destroyed when they are no
longer relevant, or no longer make sense. When the sun rises, **Pitch
Blackness** is destroyed.

Most character and story aspects are visible to everyone at the table,
but not all of them. The GM may choose to keep some aspects hidden.
Obvious examples include monster weaknesses (**example**), imminent
ambushes (**example**), and the schemes and motivations of NPCs
(**example**). Hidden aspects serve more or less as the GM's notes; if
invoked or compelled, they must be revealed to everyone.


