chapters/example_pcs.md, before:

# Example PCs

---

> ## Tor Byorn Yorgensen
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **Don't Hit First; Hit Last**
> - **Why Are We Still Talking?**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Fight
> - +1 Diplomacy/Persuasion, Physique

---

> ## "Eyegor"
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **Government Surveillance Done with a Conscience**
> - **They Want what I Know**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Insight
> - +1 Stealth, Tinker
>
> Eyegor is spy drone from City 13 who, due to a quirk in his quantum
> AI chip, decided to defect and join the rebellion. His delicate sensor
> arrays pick up almost everything happening around him, and he can still tap
> into the government's security archives so he knows a lot (_+2 Insight_).
> He's small and hard to spot (_+1 Stealth_) and able to hack into remote
> systems (_+1 Tinker_).

---

> ## Naka of Three Bridges
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **First Daughter of the Last Dragon**
> - **Hunter or Hunted?**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Shoot
> - +1 Agility, Performance
>
> Naka was born a member of a distant Orc tribe, but fled when her magical
> abilities (a "gift" of her dragon father) first emerged. She's a natural
> mage who loves tossing fireballs (_+2 Shoot_) while flying above the head of
> those she's terrorizing (_+1 Agility_). However, when its clear that might
> won't carry the day, she quickly falls back to pretending to be an orphan of
> the war to win peoples pity and help (_+1 Performance_).

---

> ## Dolores
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **Wolf in Sheep's Clothing**
> - **Father Liam Knows Too Much**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Network
> - +1 Diplomacy, Performance

---

Commit message:

Add TBY essay; he is now a sky pirate

chapters/example_pcs.md, after:

# Example PCs

---

> ## Tor Byorn Yorgensen
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **Honest Cloud Pirate**
> - **Why Are We Still Talking?**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Fight
> - +1 Persuasion, Agility
>
> Tor Byorn is too good a man to be a pirate, but too good a pirate to ever
> stop. He scours the skies in his sky ship, his eyes peeled for fat merchant
> ships sagging under the weight of wine and gold. Tor Byorn isn't much for
> words. If his reputation isn't enough to get him what he wants, he's happy
> to follow up with his steam-powered warhammer.

---

> ## "Eyegor"
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **Government Surveillance Done with a Conscience**
> - **They Want what I Know**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Insight
> - +1 Stealth, Tinker
>
> Eyegor is spy drone from City 13 who, due to a quirk in his quantum
> AI chip, decided to defect and join the rebellion. His delicate sensor
> arrays pick up almost everything happening around him, and he can still tap
> into the government's security archives so he knows a lot (_+2 Insight_).
> He's small and hard to spot (_+1 Stealth_) and able to hack into remote
> systems (_+1 Tinker_).

---

> ## Naka of Three Bridges
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **First Daughter of the Last Dragon**
> - **Hunter or Hunted?**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Shoot
> - +1 Agility, Performance
>
> Naka was born a member of a distant Orc tribe, but fled when her magical
> abilities (a "gift" of her dragon father) first emerged. She's a natural
> mage who loves tossing fireballs (_+2 Shoot_) while flying above the head of
> those she's terrorizing (_+1 Agility_). However, when its clear that might
> won't carry the day, she quickly falls back to pretending to be an orphan of
> the war to win peoples pity and help (_+1 Performance_).

---

> ## Dolores
>
> ### Aspects
>
> - **Wolf in Sheep's Clothing**
> - **Father Liam Knows Too Much**
>
> ### Skills
>
> - +2 Network
> - +1 Diplomacy, Performance

---
