chapters/introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

## Materials

MiniFate, like most tabletop roleplaying games, requires pens to write with
and paper to record your character on, a set of Fate dice (sometimes called
Fudge dice), and some tokens to represent Fate points.

Your Character sheet is where you record all the information needed to play
your character in MiniFate. It includes their name, Aspects, Skills,
Stress Boxes, and Consequences. As your character grows throughout the
course of their adventures, their character sheet will change to reflect who
they have become.  <!-- TODO: The previous sentence needs updating. -->

Fate Dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six sided dice marked with "-1"
on two sides, "0" on two sides, and "+1" on two sides. You will need four of
them because every roll in MiniFate uses four dice. In order to keep things
moving quickly, it is best to have one set of dice for each player.

Tokens are useful for keeping track of Fate points. Although in practice
Fate points can be tracked by making tick marks on your character sheet, it
is far more satisfying to have something physical to pass back and forth.
Pokers chips work well, but so do glass beads, or even all those polyhedral
dice you don't need in Fate.

Commit message:

Add a very very short introduction

chapters/introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

**MiniFate** is a tabletop roleplaying game based on [Evil Hat's Fate
Core](http://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/). Like Fate Core it is a simple
system designed to enable collaborative play and story telling.

## An Introduction to Roleplaying

## Materials

MiniFate, like most tabletop roleplaying games, requires pens to write with
and paper to record your character on, a set of Fate dice (sometimes called
Fudge dice), and some tokens to represent Fate points.

Your Character sheet is where you record all the information needed to play
your character in MiniFate. It includes their name, Aspects, Skills,
Stress Boxes, and Consequences. As your character grows throughout the
course of their adventures, their character sheet will change to reflect who
they have become.  <!-- TODO: The previous sentence needs updating. -->

Fate Dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six sided dice marked with "-1"
on two sides, "0" on two sides, and "+1" on two sides. You will need four of
them because every roll in MiniFate uses four dice. In order to keep things
moving quickly, it is best to have one set of dice for each player.

Tokens are useful for keeping track of Fate points. Although in practice
Fate points can be tracked by making tick marks on your character sheet, it
is far more satisfying to have something physical to pass back and forth.
Pokers chips work well, but so do glass beads, or even all those polyhedral
dice you don't need in Fate.
