# Non-Player Characters

The campaign world is not limited to just the PCs, there are many other
characters that inhabit it and give it life. These characters, the Non-player
characters or NPCs, are controlled by the GM.

NPCs come in two varieties: Nameless NPCs and Named NPCs.

## Nameless NPCs

Most of the NPCs in a story are nameless; they have no real history, they only
show up once, and they normally serve a single purpose. They might be the
henchmen of the primary villain whose only purpose is to provide an obstacle
to the PCs, or they might be patron at the bar who knows a secret about the
town sheriff. Whatever their origin, their role in the narrative is fleeting.

Nameless NPCs should have one Aspect describing them, but they don't need
anymore unless their role in the narrative warrants more.  Nameless NPCs only
require as many skills as they will likely use. The henchmen might have
_Fight_, _Shoot_, and _Insight_ in order to physically oppose the PCs, while
the patron at the bar might only have _Network_ and _Performance_ to represent
who he knows and his ability to lie if it will get him another drink.

In combat, nameless NPCs should be grouped together into mobs. A mob acts as
one: they make a single role on their turn and each point of stress that they
take removes one member of the mob. Just like PCs assisting each other, the
mob rolls at their base skill level plus one for every member beyond the
first. So a mob of three henchmen with _Fight_ +2 would roll at +4, +2 for
their base skill and +2 because there are two additional members joining the
first.  When a mob is reduced to one or two members it should join with
another mob to reduce the number of things to keep track of, or if that
doesn't make sense they should simply flee.

## Named NPCs

<!-- TODO: I like Nameless, not sure I like Named. Other options are: Nameless
vs. Recurring, Extras Vs. Staring, Nameless vs Main. -->

Some of the NPCs in the world are going to be more important nameless NPCs
that fill in the scenery; they'll have names, histories, goals, and
motivations, and they'll show up more than once. In the story they can serve
the role of the primary antagonist or his lieutenants, or as assistants or
rivals to the PCs.

Mechanically they are the same as PCs: they have as many Aspects as required
to flesh out their character and a host of skills instead of just a few.
However, unlike PCs, their skills do not need to follow pyramid, simply give
them the appropriate skills for the level of challenge they're supposed to
provide. About the same skill rank as the PCs if they're meant to challenge a
single PC,and one or two ranks higher if they're meant to challenge the entire
party of PCs.

Named NPCs should not fight to the death (unless it's narratively
appropriate). They should concede conflicts when they're losing in order to
live on to fight, and contribute to the story, another day. This foreshadows
future conflicts with the NPC and will make it all the more exciting when the
PCs finally stop them for good. Additionally, if NPCs concede after taking
consequences, they get Fate Points just like PCs do, making them even more
dangerous the next time they encounter the party.
