_chapters/00-outline.md, before:

---
---

{% include macros.html %}

> NOTE: this outline is for dev work only. the final product will have an auto-generated TOC if any

# Introduction

Robin Hood is a beloved outlaw, skilled with both sword and bow.
He leads a band of Merry Men against the tyrannical Sheriff of Nottingham.
He's loyal to King Richard in the face of the usurper Prince John.
And he's in love with Maid Marian.
With just those few sentences, we're ready to tell a story.
Everything else --- where he's from, what he carries, and the state of the world --- can wait until it becomes important.

{GameName} is a role-playing game that takes that same theatricality to heart.
Players get to decide what sort of story they're telling, and what details matter.
Everything else is allowed to slide.
The result is a punchy, quick-moving game with plenty of opportunities for memorable moments.

The core mechanic of {GameName} is Aspects: short improvised phrases about the in-game world.

## Game Materials

{GameName} doesn't require a lot to get started:
just pens to write with,
paper to record your character on,
a set of four Fate dice,
and some tokens to represent Fate Points.

Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six-sided dice.
They are marked with {{pos}} on two sides, {{zero}} on two sides, and {{neg}} on two sides.
To keep things moving quickly, it's best to have a set of four dice for each player.
If you don't have specially marked Fate dice, you can use normal six-side dice as follows:

| D6 Roll  | Fate Roll |
|:--------:|:---------:|
| 1 or 2   | {{neg}}   |
| 3 or 4   | {{zero}}  |
| 5 or 6   | {{pos}}   |

You'll also need a way to keep track of fate points for each player. 
Poker chips are perfect for this, but in a pinch you can just mark them down with pencil and paper.

## Acknowledgements

Bryan Fowler,
Andy Julin,
Andy Pokel,
Roxanne Radpour,
Allan Straub,
Evelyn Wu,
and
Jan Zirnstein.

TODO: Call out Evil Hat here too

# Getting Started

Not 100% sure about where to introduce aspects, but I think the flow here makes sense:

- OK, want to get started? Great! Here we go!
- The most important thing is aspects! They power everything.
- You use aspects to build your world.
- You use aspects to build your character.

## Core Concept: Aspects

## World Building

<!--
QUESTION:
I keep saying game, setting, world.
Do we want one word for these? World aspects? Setting aspects?
-->

A game's setting helps players understand how their characters fit into the world.
Aspects make sure everyone understands how 

The setting of the adventure in {GameName} is described the same way as everything else: Aspects.

Start with two aspects: a Genre and a Conflict.
The genre aspect gives a sense of what, when, and where the story takes place
The conflict aspect introduces the who and the why of the setting's biggest source of dramatic tension.
As the story progresses the setting may change; when this happens feel free to add or modify setting aspects.


## Character Creation

do this as a character sheet walkthrough
discuss concept and trouble, since you set those right away
declare the rest (stress, consequences, refresh?) but define them later

## Non-Player Characters

Like a PC, but can have as many aspects as you want (or as few) and at whatever numbers you want.
Mobs.

# How to Play

## Setting the Scene

## Rolling the Dice

## Fate Points

Compel and invoke

# Conflicts

Pretty much the same as roleplaying, but:
- Different pacing due to lots of rolls
- Map, optionally, depending on the situation
- Worrying about stress and consequences

Note: "conflict" is pretty broad.
It can be anything where the party is up against opponents
It can be a negotiation.
It can be a race.
It can be anything where these mechanics feel right.

## Stress and Consequences

you get a fate point for taking a consequence?
recovery fits here too

## Drawing a Map

Probably the top priority section for diagrams!

# Appendix

## Mages, Mechs, and Mercs

How to do weird stuff.
Aspect-based narration.
Skills were actually the thing that made this weird.
With just aspects, you can roll for whatever makes sense

## Character Advancement

Add a new aspect after every story arc.
Bump the rest up.
Linear, not pyramid.
Unclear if this is a core rule or not

## Other Things?


[fate_core]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/
[fae]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/

Commit message:

More work on world building

_chapters/00-outline.md, after:

---
---

{% include macros.html %}

> NOTE: this outline is for dev work only. the final product will have an auto-generated TOC if any

# Introduction

Robin Hood is a beloved outlaw, skilled with both sword and bow.
He leads a band of Merry Men against the tyrannical Sheriff of Nottingham.
He's loyal to King Richard in the face of the usurper Prince John.
And he's in love with Maid Marian.
With just those few sentences, we're ready to tell a story.
Everything else --- where he's from, what he carries, and the state of the world --- can wait until it becomes important.

{GameName} is a role-playing game that takes that same theatricality to heart.
Players get to decide what sort of story they're telling, and what details matter.
Everything else is allowed to slide.
The result is a punchy, quick-moving game with plenty of opportunities for memorable moments.

The core mechanic of {GameName} is Aspects: short improvised phrases about the in-game world.

## Game Materials

{GameName} doesn't require a lot to get started:
just pens to write with,
paper to record your character on,
a set of four Fate dice,
and some tokens to represent Fate Points.

Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six-sided dice.
They are marked with {{pos}} on two sides, {{zero}} on two sides, and {{neg}} on two sides.
To keep things moving quickly, it's best to have a set of four dice for each player.
If you don't have specially marked Fate dice, you can use normal six-side dice as follows:

| D6 Roll  | Fate Roll |
|:--------:|:---------:|
| 1 or 2   | {{neg}}   |
| 3 or 4   | {{zero}}  |
| 5 or 6   | {{pos}}   |

You'll also need a way to keep track of fate points for each player. 
Poker chips are perfect for this, but in a pinch you can just mark them down with pencil and paper.

## Acknowledgements

Bryan Fowler,
Andy Julin,
Andy Pokel,
Roxanne Radpour,
Allan Straub,
Evelyn Wu,
and
Jan Zirnstein.

TODO: Call out Evil Hat here too

# Getting Started

Not 100% sure about where to introduce aspects, but I think the flow here makes sense:

- OK, want to get started? Great! Here we go!
- The most important thing is aspects! They power everything.
- You use aspects to build your world.
- You use aspects to build your character.

## Core Concept: Aspects

## World Building

<!--
QUESTION:
I keep saying game, setting, world.
Do we want one word for these? World aspects? Setting aspects?
-->

A game's setting helps players understand how their characters fit into the world.
Aspects make sure everyone understands how 

The setting of the adventure in {GameName} is described the same way as everything else: Aspects.

Start with two aspects to describe the world: a genre and a conflict.
The genre aspect gives a sense of what, when, and where the story takes place.
The conflict aspect introduces the who and the why of the setting's biggest source of dramatic tension.

Write the aspects down somewhere everyone can see them.
Don't worry about making them perfect; they're just a starting point.
As the story progresses the setting may change; when this happens feel free to add or modify setting aspects.

## Character Creation

do this as a character sheet walkthrough
discuss concept and trouble, since you set those right away
declare the rest (stress, consequences, refresh?) but define them later

## Non-Player Characters

Like a PC, but can have as many aspects as you want (or as few) and at whatever numbers you want.
Mobs.

# How to Play

## Setting the Scene

## Rolling the Dice

## Fate Points

Compel and invoke

# Conflicts

Pretty much the same as roleplaying, but:
- Different pacing due to lots of rolls
- Map, optionally, depending on the situation
- Worrying about stress and consequences

Note: "conflict" is pretty broad.
It can be anything where the party is up against opponents
It can be a negotiation.
It can be a race.
It can be anything where these mechanics feel right.

## Stress and Consequences

you get a fate point for taking a consequence?
recovery fits here too

## Drawing a Map

Probably the top priority section for diagrams!

# Appendix

## Mages, Mechs, and Mercs

How to do weird stuff.
Aspect-based narration.
Skills were actually the thing that made this weird.
With just aspects, you can roll for whatever makes sense

## Character Advancement

Add a new aspect after every story arc.
Bump the rest up.
Linear, not pyramid.
Unclear if this is a core rule or not

## Other Things?


[fate_core]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/
[fae]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/
