---
---

{% include macros.html %}

## Introduction

<!-- TODO: Tighten this up. -->
_MiniFate_ is a roleplaying game for telling collaborative stories with your
friends. The system is flexible and light, letting the story shine through.
You can use it for any setting where the most important thing is the
narrative, from spaceships in the far future, to magic in the distant past, to
political intrigue in the present day.

MiniFate is based on [_Fate Core_][fate_core] and [_Fate Accelerated_][fae] by
Evil Hat and uses the same fundamental mechanics: skills and aspects. Skills
are numerical bonuses applied to dice rolls, ensuring the story is exciting
and unpredictable but not random. Aspects are short, improvised phrases to
keep the whole table on the page about what's important to the story and to
provide a framework for players to riff off each other in creative and
constructive ways.

[fate_core]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/
[fae]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/

<!-- TODO: Do we need a final sentence? -->

### Roleplaying with MiniFate

MiniFate is played with one gamemaster (_GM_) and one or more _players_. Each
player takes on the role of a player character (_PC_) which they create as the
game begins. The GM plays the rest of the world around the PCs, including its
cast of non-player characters (_NPCs_), which could be anything from friendly
space pirates to rival adventurers to hideous dungeon monsters.

The GM generally opens each scene with a quick description. Play proceeds
conversationally from there as the players and GM improvise back and forth.
Players speak as their PCs and describe their actions while the GM illustrates
how the world responds.

<!-- I want to include this out of character part, and I'd like to wrap it in
with "You can use questions to define the world..." But I don't have the right
way to do it yet.

> Players can also ask questions of the GM or other players about the world
>
> Players may also ask the GM for specific details to help them immerse themselves in the PCs' surroundings.

-->

From time to time, players will encounter a situation where a PC's failure
adds an interesting twist to the story. That's where the dice come in. Dice
rolls mediate the divide between player and PC; PC choices are made by the
players while the outcome of PC actions are judged by dice.

MiniFate is a social game. As such, the most important element is
communication. The players and the GM are not opponents (even though the PCs
and NPCs may well be enemies). Everyone has the same goals: having a good time
while telling an engaging story.

### Game Materials

MineFate doesn't require a lot to get started: pens to write with and paper to
record your character on, a set of Fate dice, and some tokens to represent
_Fate Points_.

Each player needs a character sheet. That's where they'll write down their
PC's skills and aspects, as well as any stress and consequences they pick up
along the way. The information contained on the sheet is updated as your PC
grows throughout the course of their adventures to reflect who they have
become. A [sample character sheet][pc_sheet] is included at the end of these
rules, but a plain piece of paper (or even a notecard) works fine in a pinch.

[pc_sheet]: TODO

Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six-sided dice marked with {{pos}}
on two sides, {{zero}} on two sides, and {{neg}} on two sides. Each roll uses
four dice. To keep things moving quickly, it's best to have a set of dice for
each player rather than passing them back and forth. If you don't have
specially marked Fate dice, you can use a normal six-side die and treat 1 and
2 as <span class="nowrap">{{neg}},</span> 3 and 4 as <span
class="nowrap">{{zero}},</span> and 5 and 6 as <span
class="nowrap">{{pos}}.</span>

Finally, you'll need a way to keep track of fate points. The best way is to
have something physical to pass back and forth--poker chips are excellent for
this---but you can track them by just making a mark on your character sheet as
well. In a pinch, you could even use polyhedral dice since you won't need them
in MiniFate.
