_chapters/02-world-building.md, before:

---
---
## World Building

In MiniFate, character creation and setting creation happen together. Players
and the GM may show up to the first session with rough ideas, but ultimately
settings are defined by their characters and vice versa. A ~~Pirate Captain
Who Hates Violence~~ in a world with ~~Magic is Suddenly Real~~ is very
different than one on the ~~Blood Drenched Sands of the Caribbean~~.

The game creation process should be collaborative, so it is often best to set
aside the first session in order to design the setting and the PCs as a group.
It is good to start with a very broad definition of the setting and then build
PCs, using their creation to find out more details of the setting.

### Setting

Write down two aspects to describe your setting: one for the genre, and one
for the conflict. The genre aspect should give a sense for what, when, and
where the story is about[^1]. The conflict aspect should introduce the who and
why of the setting's biggest source of dramatic tension. Between the two of
them, everyone should also be on the same page as far as the feel of the
setting: hack-and-slash, somber mystery, zany romp, etc.

[^1]: You don't need to spell everything out explicitly. But after reading the genre aspect, a stranger should be able to guess if the setting has magic, space travel, both, or neither.

For example, these aspects could set the stage for a sweeping fantasy epic:

{:.key-def}
|    Genre: | ~~Magic Fades at the Dawn of the Age of Men~~ |
| Conflict: | ~~Ancient Evil Returns After Millennia~~      |

...or a hyper-violent technological thriller:

{:.key-def}
|    Genre: | ~~Computers, Guns, and Mirror Shades~~             |
| Conflict: | ~~Machines Enslaved Humanity After the First War~~ |


...or even a space opera with cowboys and sword fights:

{:.key-def}
|    Genre: | ~~Outlaws and Prophecies on the Outer Planets~~ |
| Conflict: | ~~Galaxy-Spanning Empire Tightens its Grip~~    |

Write these aspects down somewhere everyone can see them. Don't worry about
making them perfect. They're just a starting point. You can come back and
change them during character creation, or even after the story is underway!

> <!--Do we need more of an intro? Like "We'll build an example world, example
> characters, and use them to show you how to play..." ?-->
>
> We decide to be sky pirates in a steampunk fantasy world. We want magic,
> sword fights, and swashbuckling adventures in a world of intrigue where they
> can never be sure if they're the conman or the mark. We write down the
> following two Aspects:
> 
> {:.key-def}
> |    Genre: | ~~Steam-Powered Swashbuckling on the Seven Seas~~ |
> | Conflict: | ~~A Puppet-Master is Pulling All the Strings~~    |
> 
> In the next chapter we'll build our characters; from then on we'll use that
> setting for examples.

### Scenes

Your game will take place across a number of scenes that exist within the
larger setting. Just as with your overall setting, each scene will have one or
more aspects that describes it.

The GM will often create these aspects as they describe the scene to the
players. Some examples:

- ~~An Army of Orcs Arrives at the Wall~~
- ~~Rust-Bucket Hovercraft in the Real World~~
- ~~Alien Bar Where The Authorities Dare Not Tread~~

Just as with setting aspects, don't be shy about updating scene aspects if the
story calls for it. Remember: aspects are always true! <!-- TODO: I don't
think we've ever said this before.-->

Commit message:

Start general edits of chatper 2

_chapters/02-world-building.md, after:

---
---
## World Building

In MiniFate, character creation and setting creation happen together. It is
good to have a rough idea of what type of game the players and GM want to
play, but ultimately settings are defined by their characters and vice versa.
A ~~Pirate Captain Who Hates Violence~~ in a world where ~~Magic is Suddenly
Real~~ is very different than one on the ~~Blood Drenched Sands of the
Caribbean~~.

The game creation process should be collaborative, so it is often best to set
aside the first session in order to design the setting and the PCs as a group.
A good way to structure world building is to come up with a broad definition
of the setting and then build the PCs. This lets you use character creation to
define the details of the world.

### Setting

Write down two aspects to describe your setting: one for the genre, and one
for the conflict. The genre aspect should give a sense for what, when, and
where the story is about[^1]. The conflict aspect should introduce the who and
why of the setting's biggest source of dramatic tension. Between the two of
them, everyone should also be on the same page as far as the feel of the
setting: hack-and-slash, somber mystery, zany romp, etc.

[^1]: You don't need to spell everything out explicitly. But after reading the genre aspect, a stranger should be able to guess if the setting has magic, space travel, both, or neither.

For example, these aspects could set the stage for a sweeping fantasy epic:

{:.key-def}
|    Genre: | ~~Magic Fades at the Dawn of the Age of Men~~ |
| Conflict: | ~~Ancient Evil Returns After Millennia~~      |

...or a hyper-violent technological thriller:

{:.key-def}
|    Genre: | ~~Computers, Guns, and Mirror Shades~~             |
| Conflict: | ~~Machines Enslaved Humanity After the First War~~ |


...or even a space opera with cowboys and sword fights:

{:.key-def}
|    Genre: | ~~Outlaws and Prophecies on the Outer Planets~~ |
| Conflict: | ~~Galaxy-Spanning Empire Tightens its Grip~~    |

Write these aspects down somewhere everyone can see them. Don't worry about
making them perfect. They're just a starting point. You can come back and
change them during character creation, or even after the story is underway!

> <!--Do we need more of an intro? Like "We'll build an example world, example
> characters, and use them to show you how to play..." ?-->
>
> We decide to be sky pirates in a steampunk fantasy world. We want magic,
> sword fights, and swashbuckling adventures in a world of intrigue where they
> can never be sure if they're the conman or the mark. We write down the
> following two Aspects:
> 
> {:.key-def}
> |    Genre: | ~~Steam-Powered Swashbuckling on the Seven Seas~~ |
> | Conflict: | ~~A Puppet-Master is Pulling All the Strings~~    |
> 
> In the next chapter we'll build our characters; from then on we'll use that
> setting for examples.

### Scenes

Your game will take place across a number of scenes that exist within the
larger setting. Just as with your overall setting, each scene will have one or
more aspects that describes it.

The GM will often create these aspects as they describe the scene to the
players. Some examples:

- ~~An Army of Orcs Arrives at the Wall~~
- ~~Rust-Bucket Hovercraft in the Real World~~
- ~~Alien Bar Where The Authorities Dare Not Tread~~

Just as with setting aspects, don't be shy about updating scene aspects if the
story calls for it. Remember: aspects are always true! <!-- TODO: I don't
think we've ever said this before.-->
