_chapters/03-character-creation.md, before:

---
---
## Character Creation

<!-- TODO: This paragraph is clunky but important. Rewrite. -->

PCs in {GameName} are mechanically simple but narratively diverse. Starting PCs
have of two aspects---their Concept and Trouble---and a set of skills. All PCs
have three Stress Boxes, three Consequences, and a Refresh of two. Aspects and
Skills are covered in depth later. <!-- TODO are they? -->

On the last page you'll find a [character sheet][pc_sheet] to record your PC.

[pc_sheet]: TODO

### Concept

Your Concept answers the question "Who are you playing?" It is an aspect that
describes broadly who the PC is and why they are unique, exciting characters.
Your PC's concept considered alongside the setting aspects should give a good
idea of who they are and how they'll play. 

Some example Concepts are: ~~Rightful King Hiding in the Wild~~, ~~Loner
Hacker Who Knows The World Is Not What It Seems~~, or ~~Backwater Farm Boy
Looking to Join The Academy~~.


### Trouble

<!-- TODO: It's ok (even good!) if your Concept sometimes causes you trouble. It's
ok (even good!) if your trouble sometimes works to your benefit. The whole
point of aspects is that they prompt the players to riff off each other in fun
and unexpected ways.-->

<!-- TODO: Can we make this POP as much as the first sentence above? -->
The PC's second aspect is their Trouble; it describes the sort of things that
get in the PC's way and make their story interesting. A PC's trouble aspect is
a good way for the player to indicate what sort of problems they would find
interesting to deal with.

The trouble aspect should not necessarily be the thing that is most likely to
cause the PC trouble, especially if it would be boring to deal with in game. A
hardboiled detective might drink excessively, but ~~Can't Resist a Drink~~
might not add much roleplaying potential, whereas ~~Soft Spot for Losers Like
Me~~ offers the GM and other players a lot of story hooks.

However, just because an aspect is your trouble doesn't mean it can't help you
from time to time. Likewise, your concept is not purely positive and can lead
to difficulties for the character. Aspects should be interpreted broadly;
looking for opportunities to see them from other angles will add character
depth and make the game more exciting.

Some example Troubles are: ~~I Don't Know Which Side I'm On~~,
~~Everyone I Get Close To Ends Up In Trouble~~, or ~~My Past Is A
Dangerous Mystery; Even to Me~~.

### Skills

Skills give PCs mechanical weight and allow them to interact with the game
world. PCs begin with one skill at rank +2, and two skills at rank +1.

| Skill         | Used For                                                            |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Agility`     | Climbing, dodging, moving, including mounts and vehicles            |
| `Fight`       | Engaging in armed and unarmed melee combat                          |
| `Insight`     | Searching, tracking, finding, noticing, knowing                     |
| `Network`     | Knowing people, having access to things, having items on you        |
| `Performance` | Lying, singing, dancing, disguising                                 | 
| `Persuasion`  | Negotiating, bargaining, flattering, empathizing                    |
| `Physique`    | Lifting, smashing, resisting poison and exposure                    |
| `Shoot`       | Attacking with ranged and thrown weapons                            |
| `Stealth`     | Hiding, moving silently, concealing objects on your person          |
| `Tinker`      | Picking locks, disarming traps, hacking computers, repairing things |

A default list of skills is provided later, but generating a set of skills is
a key part of game creation as it helps to define what actions the PCs will
take in response to the story.

> It is time to put together our pirate PCs. The first is Tor Byorn Yorgensen:
>
> A year ago, Tor Byorn Yorgensen had it all: a fast ship, a loyal crew, and a
> fearsome reputation. He once _TODO_ without spilling a single drop of blood. But he
> lost everything in a night of drunken gambling. Now, disgraced, he serves as
> second mate on the ramshackle _Angry Pig_.
>
> {:.key-def}
> | Concept: | ~~Speak Softly and Carry a Magic Axe~~ |
> | Trouble: | ~~Lost My Boat in a Game of Cards~~    |
>
> Although Tor Byron prefers to intimidate people into doing what he wants (+1
> `Persuasion`), he is exceptionally deadly with his magical axe (+2 `Fight`).
> Tor Byorn made a lot of connections as a pirate captain---not all of them
> friendly---and he isn't afraid to call in favors when it will help himself
> or his crew (+1 `Network`).
>
> {:.key-def}
> | +2 | `Fight`                 |
> | +1 | `Persuasion`, `Network` |
>
> The second PC is Naka:
>
> Captain Naka is a half-orc pyromancer (and pyromaniac) exiled by her
> magic-fearing clan. She grew up on the streets of Three Bridges, where her
> quick tongue and speedy reflexes kept her safe from the worst consequences
> of her own actions. A loner with trust issues, she now finds herself
> responsible for _Angry Pig_ and its crew.
>
> {:.key-def}
> | Concept: | ~~Never Met A Problem My Magic Couldn't Ignite~~ |
> | Trouble: | ~~Can't Trust My Crew or My Clan~~               |
>
> Naka is a talented mage whose first instinct when cornered is to start
> throwing fireballs (+2 `Shoot`). When that fails---or more likely only
> increases the trouble she is in---she falls back to lying and shifting the
> blame (+1 `Performance`) while looking for any opportunity to run for it (+1
> `Agility`).
>
> {:.key-def}
> | +2 | `Shoot`                  |
> | +1 | `Agility`, `Performance` |

### Advancement

<!-- TODO #54: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/54 -->

### Non-Player Characters

NPCs are the characters in the story that fill out the world. They're played
by the GM and include everyone from background characters at a pirate bar, to
marauding goblins bent on steal treasure, to the general of the empire's army
who is more than he seems.

NPCs are more free form than PCs; give them just enough aspects and skills to
perform their role in the narrative. Recurring characters can be built exactly
like PCs with two aspects and as many skills as needed. NPCs who are intended to
challenge the group of PCs should have higher level skills than PCs, as
they're competing against the entire group.

Background characters show up once or twice an general serve a simple role in
the narrative. They can generally get away with a single aspect and a skill or
two. The bartender who makes small talk and drops a few rumors could be
represented with ~~In Vino Veritas~~ and `Performance` or `Persuasion`. A set
of guards keeping Tor Byron out of the royal ball might only need an aspect
like ~~Somewhat Loyal and Underpaid Guards~~ and the skills `Fight` and
`Persuasion` in case Tor Byorn tries to force or bribe his way in. If a
background character suddenly becomes important to story, you can give them
more skills and aspects to reflect their newfound narrative weight.

Sometimes the story calls for a very large number of NPCs, for example during
a riot you might need hundreds or thousands of people. The best way to handle
these situations is to create a single NPC to represent the group. Give the
group NPC aspects and skills just like any other character. The only
difference is how you handle the narration: instead of Tor Byron intimidating
a single person into doing what he wants with `Persuasion`, describe him as
convincing a part of the mob to disperse.

<!-- TODO #55 Add example NPCS: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/55 -->

### Mechanical Stuff <!-- TODO #56: Update Mechanical Stuff https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/56 -->

A PC's Refresh determines how many Fate Points they start each session with.
PCs begin with a refresh of 2. <!-- TODO: Does this change? -->

#### Stress and Consequences

<!-- TODO: #57 Update stress and consequences: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/57 -->

<!-- TODO: Do these numbers change? -->
PCs begin with three stress boxes and three consequences. When a PC is harmed
from losing a Skills contest (covered in the Skills section) they check off
their Stress Boxes. If no Stress Boxes remain, they must instead write a new
aspect for their character in one of the consequences slots.

Each level of consequence is more impactful and lasts for longer. Here are the
guidelines:

<!-- TODO: Can we just number consequences? -->
<!-- TODO: Can we nail down how long they last? Have we defined "Session". -->

_Mild_: Recovers in a scene or two and does not impact the PCs function much.
Generally the PC will have to spend a small amount of attention to fix it.
Examples are: ~~Covered in Alien Slime~~ or ~~Dropped My Gun~~.

_Moderate_: Recovers after many scenes, and impacts the PCs ability to use
some skills as effectively as before. Examples are: ~~They Stole My
Father's Sword~~ or ~~Out Of Ammo~~.

_Severe_: Recovery will involve actively working to fix it over several game
sessions and the effects may linger for a long time. In the moment the PC is
severely limited by it. This consequence is likely the most pressing thing for
the PC to deal with while it exists. Examples include: ~~They Sundered
My Family's Magic Shield~~ or ~~My Personality Split In Two~~.

Commit message:

Replace HTML comments with Liquid comments
This way they don't render in the output.

_chapters/03-character-creation.md, after:

---
---
## Character Creation

{% comment %} TODO: This paragraph is clunky but important. Rewrite. {% endcomment %}

PCs in {GameName} are mechanically simple but narratively diverse. Starting PCs
have of two aspects---their Concept and Trouble---and a set of skills. All PCs
have three Stress Boxes, three Consequences, and a Refresh of two. Aspects and
Skills are covered in depth later. {% comment %} TODO are they? {% endcomment %}

On the last page you'll find a [character sheet][pc_sheet] to record your PC.

[pc_sheet]: TODO

### Concept

Your Concept answers the question "Who are you playing?" It is an aspect that
describes broadly who the PC is and why they are unique, exciting characters.
Your PC's concept considered alongside the setting aspects should give a good
idea of who they are and how they'll play. 

Some example Concepts are: ~~Rightful King Hiding in the Wild~~, ~~Loner
Hacker Who Knows The World Is Not What It Seems~~, or ~~Backwater Farm Boy
Looking to Join The Academy~~.


### Trouble

{% comment %} TODO: It's ok (even good!) if your Concept sometimes causes you trouble. It's
ok (even good!) if your trouble sometimes works to your benefit. The whole
point of aspects is that they prompt the players to riff off each other in fun
and unexpected ways.{% endcomment %}

{% comment %} TODO: Can we make this POP as much as the first sentence above? {% endcomment %}
The PC's second aspect is their Trouble; it describes the sort of things that
get in the PC's way and make their story interesting. A PC's trouble aspect is
a good way for the player to indicate what sort of problems they would find
interesting to deal with.

The trouble aspect should not necessarily be the thing that is most likely to
cause the PC trouble, especially if it would be boring to deal with in game. A
hardboiled detective might drink excessively, but ~~Can't Resist a Drink~~
might not add much roleplaying potential, whereas ~~Soft Spot for Losers Like
Me~~ offers the GM and other players a lot of story hooks.

However, just because an aspect is your trouble doesn't mean it can't help you
from time to time. Likewise, your concept is not purely positive and can lead
to difficulties for the character. Aspects should be interpreted broadly;
looking for opportunities to see them from other angles will add character
depth and make the game more exciting.

Some example Troubles are: ~~I Don't Know Which Side I'm On~~,
~~Everyone I Get Close To Ends Up In Trouble~~, or ~~My Past Is A
Dangerous Mystery; Even to Me~~.

### Skills

Skills give PCs mechanical weight and allow them to interact with the game
world. PCs begin with one skill at rank +2, and two skills at rank +1.

| Skill         | Used For                                                            |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Agility`     | Climbing, dodging, moving, including mounts and vehicles            |
| `Fight`       | Engaging in armed and unarmed melee combat                          |
| `Insight`     | Searching, tracking, finding, noticing, knowing                     |
| `Network`     | Knowing people, having access to things, having items on you        |
| `Performance` | Lying, singing, dancing, disguising                                 | 
| `Persuasion`  | Negotiating, bargaining, flattering, empathizing                    |
| `Physique`    | Lifting, smashing, resisting poison and exposure                    |
| `Shoot`       | Attacking with ranged and thrown weapons                            |
| `Stealth`     | Hiding, moving silently, concealing objects on your person          |
| `Tinker`      | Picking locks, disarming traps, hacking computers, repairing things |

A default list of skills is provided later, but generating a set of skills is
a key part of game creation as it helps to define what actions the PCs will
take in response to the story.

> It is time to put together our pirate PCs. The first is Tor Byorn Yorgensen:
>
> A year ago, Tor Byorn Yorgensen had it all: a fast ship, a loyal crew, and a
> fearsome reputation. He once _TODO_ without spilling a single drop of blood. But he
> lost everything in a night of drunken gambling. Now, disgraced, he serves as
> second mate on the ramshackle _Angry Pig_.
>
> {:.key-def}
> | Concept: | ~~Speak Softly and Carry a Magic Axe~~ |
> | Trouble: | ~~Lost My Boat in a Game of Cards~~    |
>
> Although Tor Byron prefers to intimidate people into doing what he wants (+1
> `Persuasion`), he is exceptionally deadly with his magical axe (+2 `Fight`).
> Tor Byorn made a lot of connections as a pirate captain---not all of them
> friendly---and he isn't afraid to call in favors when it will help himself
> or his crew (+1 `Network`).
>
> {:.key-def}
> | +2 | `Fight`                 |
> | +1 | `Persuasion`, `Network` |
>
> The second PC is Naka:
>
> Captain Naka is a half-orc pyromancer (and pyromaniac) exiled by her
> magic-fearing clan. She grew up on the streets of Three Bridges, where her
> quick tongue and speedy reflexes kept her safe from the worst consequences
> of her own actions. A loner with trust issues, she now finds herself
> responsible for _Angry Pig_ and its crew.
>
> {:.key-def}
> | Concept: | ~~Never Met A Problem My Magic Couldn't Ignite~~ |
> | Trouble: | ~~Can't Trust My Crew or My Clan~~               |
>
> Naka is a talented mage whose first instinct when cornered is to start
> throwing fireballs (+2 `Shoot`). When that fails---or more likely only
> increases the trouble she is in---she falls back to lying and shifting the
> blame (+1 `Performance`) while looking for any opportunity to run for it (+1
> `Agility`).
>
> {:.key-def}
> | +2 | `Shoot`                  |
> | +1 | `Agility`, `Performance` |

### Advancement

{% comment %} TODO #54: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/54 {% endcomment %}

### Non-Player Characters

NPCs are the characters in the story that fill out the world. They're played
by the GM and include everyone from background characters at a pirate bar, to
marauding goblins bent on steal treasure, to the general of the empire's army
who is more than he seems.

NPCs are more free form than PCs; give them just enough aspects and skills to
perform their role in the narrative. Recurring characters can be built exactly
like PCs with two aspects and as many skills as needed. NPCs who are intended to
challenge the group of PCs should have higher level skills than PCs, as
they're competing against the entire group.

Background characters show up once or twice an general serve a simple role in
the narrative. They can generally get away with a single aspect and a skill or
two. The bartender who makes small talk and drops a few rumors could be
represented with ~~In Vino Veritas~~ and `Performance` or `Persuasion`. A set
of guards keeping Tor Byron out of the royal ball might only need an aspect
like ~~Somewhat Loyal and Underpaid Guards~~ and the skills `Fight` and
`Persuasion` in case Tor Byorn tries to force or bribe his way in. If a
background character suddenly becomes important to story, you can give them
more skills and aspects to reflect their newfound narrative weight.

Sometimes the story calls for a very large number of NPCs, for example during
a riot you might need hundreds or thousands of people. The best way to handle
these situations is to create a single NPC to represent the group. Give the
group NPC aspects and skills just like any other character. The only
difference is how you handle the narration: instead of Tor Byron intimidating
a single person into doing what he wants with `Persuasion`, describe him as
convincing a part of the mob to disperse.

{% comment %} TODO #55 Add example NPCS: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/55 {% endcomment %}

### Mechanical Stuff {% comment %} TODO #56: Update Mechanical Stuff https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/56 {% endcomment %}

A PC's Refresh determines how many Fate Points they start each session with.
PCs begin with a refresh of 2. {% comment %} TODO: Does this change? {% endcomment %}

#### Stress and Consequences

{% comment %} TODO: #57 Update stress and consequences: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/57 {% endcomment %}

{% comment %} TODO: Do these numbers change? {% endcomment %}
PCs begin with three stress boxes and three consequences. When a PC is harmed
from losing a Skills contest (covered in the Skills section) they check off
their Stress Boxes. If no Stress Boxes remain, they must instead write a new
aspect for their character in one of the consequences slots.

Each level of consequence is more impactful and lasts for longer. Here are the
guidelines:

{% comment %} TODO: Can we just number consequences? {% endcomment %}
{% comment %} TODO: Can we nail down how long they last? Have we defined "Session". {% endcomment %}

_Mild_: Recovers in a scene or two and does not impact the PCs function much.
Generally the PC will have to spend a small amount of attention to fix it.
Examples are: ~~Covered in Alien Slime~~ or ~~Dropped My Gun~~.

_Moderate_: Recovers after many scenes, and impacts the PCs ability to use
some skills as effectively as before. Examples are: ~~They Stole My
Father's Sword~~ or ~~Out Of Ammo~~.

_Severe_: Recovery will involve actively working to fix it over several game
sessions and the effects may linger for a long time. In the moment the PC is
severely limited by it. This consequence is likely the most pressing thing for
the PC to deal with while it exists. Examples include: ~~They Sundered
My Family's Magic Shield~~ or ~~My Personality Split In Two~~.
