_chapters/04-dice-and-points.md, before:

---
---
## Dice and Fate Points

{% include macros.html %}

<!--- TODO: better name.

- Deciding What Happens
- Narrative Control
- Game Mechanics
- Mechanics
- Taking Action
- Resolving Conflicts

-->

MiniFate uses dice to add an element of unpredictability to the story. Without
them, you might as well be writing a novel! That said, it's not all up to
chance. Players can spend fate points to re-roll the dice at dramatically
appropriate moments, or even invent new aspects about the world. But watch
out---the GM has fate points as well, which they can use to complicate the
PCs' lives at just the wrong moment.

### Skill Rolls

Dice are an important part of MiniFate, but that doesn't mean you need to roll
for every little thing. As a general rule, the GM should prompt players for a
roll in situations where a competent hero might reasonably fail _and_ failure
adds an interesting twist to the story. For example, a ~~Swashbuckling
Genius~~ probably doesn't need to roll to fend off an attack by a ~~Nameless
Deck-Hand~~... but she might roll `Fight` to subdue him before his friends
escape, or `Network` to recognize him as a ~~Student of the Blade Dancers~~.

Players can roll to:

- Create a scene aspect with a free invocation
- Destroy a scene aspect
- Inflict stress on another character (typically an NPC)
- Defend against someone inflicting stress on them
<!-- What about making people believe you? Is that stress? Is that an aspect?
-->

Sometimes the aspects describing a scene aren't the ones you want. Your
character can create new aspects or destroy existing ones with a role. To do
so, the player states their intention and the DM sets a difficulty from 0
(easy) to 6 (hard) and which skill needs to be rolled. The player rolls their
dice, sums the result, and adds their skill value (0 if they don't have the
skill). If this total meets or beats the DMs difficulty, they succeed. When
creating an aspect, the player gets one free invocation; they get an
additional one if they beat the target number by 2 or more.

> Tor Byron and Naka were waiting in a warehouse up by the docks for a contact
> when they notice some thugs approaching. True to her aspect ~~Never Met A
> Problem My Magic Couldn't Ignite~~, Naka thinks things would go better if
> the warehouse were an inferno. The GM tells her it's full of dried tobacco
> and should ignite easily, so her target is 1 and the skill she needs is
> `Shoot`.
>
> Naka rolls {{dice--pmpp}} and adds her +2 `Shoot` for a total of 4, easily
> beating the target. The GM writes ~~Billowing Smokey Inferno~~ on a note
> card, draws two boxes on it to represent Naka's free invocations, and places
> it on the table. It's going to be a lot harder for the ambushers to find
> them now!

Rolling to inflict or defend against stress involves opposed rolls. The
attacking character rolls their dice and adds their skill to the total. So
does the defending character. If the attacker's total is higher, the
difference between to the two sums is the amount of stress inflicted.

> Naka's helmsmen has stepped out of line one too many times; the last straw
> was selling them out to a rival crew and trying to take over the ship in the
> confusion! He lunges at Naka with his sword as she tries to leap out of the
> way. He rolls his dice and gets {{dice-pznp}} which is 1. He adds his
> `Fight` score of +1 for a total of 2.
>
> Naka's `Agility` is +1 but she rolls {{dice-nznz}} to dodge giving her a
> total of -1. The difference between the attack and her defense is 3, so she
> takes 3 stress.
<!-- Shoot, do we have to talk about stress now!? -->

Roll outcomes:

- Fail
- Succeed at a Cost
- Succeed
- Succeed with Style

### Stress and Consequences

When a PC fails to defend themselves against an attack, they have three options:

- Mark a stress box of value N or greater, where N is the margin of the roll. Each PC has three stress boxes, valued 1, 2, and 3.
- Add a consequence of valued N or greater, where N is the value of the roll. Each PC has three consequence slots, valued 2, 4, and 6.
- Be out of the fight.

"Out of the fight" doesn't typically mean "dead." But it does mean the PC takes no more actions for the rest of the scene.

### Invoking Aspects

Spend a fate point to:

- Re-roll
- Add a +2 bonus to your roll

<!--- TODO: is two options dumb? -->

### Compels

Sometimes the GM will come up with a fun twist that makes a PC's life difficult.

Players can also compel the GM! Anyone can pay a fate point to add an aspect to the scene. The GM is allowed to refuse.

The fate point economy is a closed loop. When a player spends a fate point or compels the GM, that point goes to the GM. Same thing the other way. One exception: the GM can compel players even if they're out of fate points? In that case they just grab an extra fate point

## Examples

<!-- TODO: Where does this go? -->

> The _Angry Pig_ is slowly navigating an aether storm when Tor Byron hears
> the sound of grappling hooks biting into soft wood. "Goblin raiders! They
> must have be stalking us through the storm!" he calls out.
>
> Too late to talk it out, Tor Byron's player declares that his PC hefts his
> magic axe and charges the goblins, aiming to drive them off his boat. The
> Goblins have the aspect **Cowerdly Except in Large Numbers**.
>
> The GM asks Tor Byron to roll

Tor Byorn doesn't roll to see if he can steer a boat straight, we know he is a
former captain, of course he can! Likewise when the _Angry Pig_ is boarded by
aether Goblins Tor Byorn will roll `Fight` to drive them away, but his
eventual success is not really in doubt, instead he rolls to see if he can
defeat them before they make off with his treasure.

Commit message:

Implement recommendation to use succeed with style

_chapters/04-dice-and-points.md, after:

---
---
## Dice and Fate Points

{% include macros.html %}

<!--- TODO: better name.

- Deciding What Happens
- Narrative Control
- Game Mechanics
- Mechanics
- Taking Action
- Resolving Conflicts

-->

MiniFate uses dice to add an element of unpredictability to the story. Without
them, you might as well be writing a novel! That said, it's not all up to
chance. Players can spend fate points to re-roll the dice at dramatically
appropriate moments, or even invent new aspects about the world. But watch
out---the GM has fate points as well, which they can use to complicate the
PCs' lives at just the wrong moment.

### Skill Rolls

Dice are an important part of MiniFate, but that doesn't mean you need to roll
for every little thing. As a general rule, the GM should prompt players for a
roll in situations where a competent hero might reasonably fail _and_ failure
adds an interesting twist to the story. For example, a ~~Swashbuckling
Genius~~ probably doesn't need to roll to fend off an attack by a ~~Nameless
Deck-Hand~~... but she might roll `Fight` to subdue him before his friends
escape, or `Network` to recognize him as a ~~Student of the Blade Dancers~~.

Players can roll to:

- Create a scene aspect with a free invocation
- Destroy a scene aspect
- Inflict stress on another character (typically an NPC)
- Defend against someone inflicting stress on them
<!-- What about making people believe you? Is that stress? Is that an aspect?
-->

Sometimes the aspects describing a scene aren't the ones you want. Your
character can create new aspects or destroy existing ones with a role. To do
so, the player states their intention and the DM sets a difficulty from 0
(easy) to 6 (hard) and which skill needs to be rolled. The player rolls their
dice, sums the result, and adds their skill value (0 if they don't have the
skill). If this total meets or beats the DMs difficulty, they succeed. When
creating an aspect, the player gets one free invocation; they get an
additional invocation if they succeed with style by beating the target number
by 2 or more.

> Tor Byron and Naka were waiting in a warehouse up by the docks for a contact
> when they notice some thugs approaching. True to her aspect ~~Never Met A
> Problem My Magic Couldn't Ignite~~, Naka thinks things would go better if
> the warehouse were an inferno. The GM tells her it's full of dried tobacco
> and should ignite easily, so her target is 1 and the skill she needs is
> `Shoot`.
>
> Naka rolls {{dice--pmpp}} and adds her +2 `Shoot` for a total of 4, easily
> beating the target. The GM writes ~~Billowing Smokey Inferno~~ on a note
> card, draws two boxes on it to represent Naka's free invocations, and places
> it on the table. It's going to be a lot harder for the ambushers to find
> them now!

Rolling to inflict or defend against stress involves opposed rolls. The
attacking character rolls their dice and adds their skill to the total. So
does the defending character. If the attacker's total is higher, the
difference between to the two sums is the amount of stress inflicted.

> Naka's helmsmen has stepped out of line one too many times; the last straw
> was selling them out to a rival crew and trying to take over the ship in the
> confusion! He lunges at Naka with his sword as she tries to leap out of the
> way. He rolls his dice and gets {{dice-pznp}} which is 1. He adds his
> `Fight` score of +1 for a total of 2.
>
> Naka's `Agility` is +1 but she rolls {{dice-nznz}} to dodge giving her a
> total of -1. The difference between the attack and her defense is 3, so she
> takes 3 stress.
<!-- Shoot, do we have to talk about stress now!? -->

Roll outcomes:

<!-- TODO: Do these move up higher on the page? Is fail missing the target and
succeed at a cost... equaling? 

- Fail when < target
- Succeed at a Cost when = target
- Succeed when > target
- Succeed with Style > target + 1 

Seems very compressed around 0, 1, 2

-->


- Fail
- Succeed at a Cost
- Succeed
- Succeed with Style

### Stress and Consequences

When a PC fails to defend themselves against an attack, they have three options:

- Mark a stress box of value N or greater, where N is the margin of the roll. Each PC has three stress boxes, valued 1, 2, and 3.
- Add a consequence of valued N or greater, where N is the value of the roll. Each PC has three consequence slots, valued 2, 4, and 6.
- Be out of the fight.

"Out of the fight" doesn't typically mean "dead." But it does mean the PC takes no more actions for the rest of the scene.

### Invoking Aspects

Spend a fate point to:

- Re-roll
- Add a +2 bonus to your roll

<!--- TODO: is two options dumb? -->

### Compels

Sometimes the GM will come up with a fun twist that makes a PC's life difficult.

Players can also compel the GM! Anyone can pay a fate point to add an aspect to the scene. The GM is allowed to refuse.

The fate point economy is a closed loop. When a player spends a fate point or compels the GM, that point goes to the GM. Same thing the other way. One exception: the GM can compel players even if they're out of fate points? In that case they just grab an extra fate point

## Examples

<!-- TODO: Where does this go? -->

> The _Angry Pig_ is slowly navigating an aether storm when Tor Byron hears
> the sound of grappling hooks biting into soft wood. "Goblin raiders! They
> must have be stalking us through the storm!" he calls out.
>
> Too late to talk it out, Tor Byron's player declares that his PC hefts his
> magic axe and charges the goblins, aiming to drive them off his boat. The
> Goblins have the aspect **Cowerdly Except in Large Numbers**.
>
> The GM asks Tor Byron to roll

Tor Byorn doesn't roll to see if he can steer a boat straight, we know he is a
former captain, of course he can! Likewise when the _Angry Pig_ is boarded by
aether Goblins Tor Byorn will roll `Fight` to drive them away, but his
eventual success is not really in doubt, instead he rolls to see if he can
defeat them before they make off with his treasure.
