_chapters/05-aspects-and-fate-points.md, before:

---
---
## Aspects and Fate Points

{% include macros.html %}

An Aspect is a short, improvised phrase written about the in-game world by a
player or the GM. They are how the narrative interacts with the mechanics of
the game, allowing what makes a good story to drive what happens when the dice
are rolled. Aspects are how the players and the GM come to an agreed upon
understanding of the characters, the setting, and the current scene.

Some Aspects are attached to characters, allowing the player or GM to
express in their own words what makes the character unique and interesting.
Other Aspects refer to the world around the characters, or the story taking
place in it. An Aspect can be a detail within the current scene, a summary of
the overarching plot arc, or literally any other phrase that the players or GM
find pertinent.

Aspects have three roles, each of which is crucial to the game:

- **Aspects are always true**: They are how the table judges what play makes
  sense based on the story. If a character is ~~Grappled~~, they obviously
  cannot run away, swing a weapon, or do anything that requires free movement.
  Similarly, if a character is a ~~Pyromancer of the Dancing Flame~~ then
  their `Shoot` attack will probably take the form of a conjured fireball and
  they would be absolutely helpless if asked to pick up a crossbow.
- **Aspects can be invoked for a bonus on a roll**: If the dice say that
  ~~Sherwood's Greatest Archer~~ is about to miss a tough shot, the
  player can spend a fate point to get a bonus on the roll.
- **Aspects can be compelled to create engaging plot twists**: Twists and
  turns make an engaging story; MiniFate encourages plot twists by
  compensating players when the narrative turns against them. This helps to
  ensure that the players have fun even when their characters aren't.

### Aspects

#### Story Aspects

Any aspect not attached to a character is a story aspect. Like character
aspects, story aspects are always true. Unlike those aspects, story aspects
can change from moment to moment: creating an effect in the fiction is
represented by creating a story aspect and reversing that effect removes the
aspect.

Story aspects can be introduced by the GM to help set a scene. For example,
maybe ~~It's Raining Hard~~ or ~~Everyone Seems On-Edge~~. They can also be
created as a result of skill rolls during gameplay. Quenching a campfire can
create ~~Pitch Blackness~~ while wrestling someone to the ground creates
~~Grappled~~.

The changing or removing an aspect is similar. A character can modify an
aspect by rolling; if a roll is made to break a grapple, the ~~Grappled~~
aspect is destroyed. Story aspects also are removed when they are no longer
relevant, or no longer make sense. When the sun rises, ~~Pitch Blackness~~ is
destroyed.

> Tor Byorn is leading a raiding party to steal a rival crew's cargo right out
> of their storehouse. The GM writes down the aspect ~~Abnormally Dark and
> Rainy~~ as he describes the scene. A few moments later Tor Byron heres a
> whistling shriek as a special arrow misses his head by an inch but finds its
> target in the man behind him.
> 
> Tor Byorn's player asks the GM if he can roll `Insight` to spot the
> assassin, but GM declines; it wouldn't make sense with the story aspect.
> Undiscouraged, the Dwarf starts looking for a way to brighten up the night,
> perhaps with some fire...

#### Hidden Aspects

### Fate Points

#### Declaring Aspects

#### Invoking Aspects

Fate Points can be spent to invoke aspects for bonuses to rolls. To do so, the
player spends a Fate Point, explains how one of the aspects in play would help
the character making the roll or hinder their opponents, and then either adds
+2 to the result of the roll or re-throw all four of their dice. Invoking an
aspect must make sense. The group should agree that the aspect is applicable
with the GM being the final arbiter.

Players may spend Fate points to invoke aspects for their own rolls and the GM
may spend Fate Points to invoke aspects on rolls he makes for his NPCs.
Multiple aspects can be invoked on the same roll, but the same aspect cannot
be invoked more than once on the same roll (even if a fate point is used to
throw the dice again). 

Aspects need not be invoked all at once. A player may see whether they would
succeed with a roll before deciding whether to invoke any aspects. After
invoking an aspect, they may again see what the result would be before
deciding to let it stand or invoking other aspects to gain a further bonus.

If two players are invoking aspects on a roll (for example, if a player's PC
is attack one of the GM's NPCs), then the roll is resolved only after both
players agree that they are finished. Again, each specific aspect may only be
invoked once per roll, so if both players want to invoke the same aspect the
group should decide for which character it would be more beneficial. If no
agreement can be reached, neither player may invoke it.

> The _Angry Pig_ has been impounded for failure to pay import taxes. Tor
> Byorn is trying to convince the officials to let it go in exchange for a
> future payment. After rolling his `Persuasion` against their `Insight`,
> the margin is -1, failure.
>
> Tor Byorn's player holds up one of the poker chips the group uses for fate
> points and says "As you know, I have ~~Lost My Boat in a Game of Cards~~
> before, and I'm not keen to lose another one." The GM takes the fate point
> and Tor Byorn adds +2 to his roll, converting it into a success. The _Angry
> Pig_ is released, for now, and the GM makes a note to come back to Tor
> Byorn's promise later.

{% comment %} TODO #60: is two options dumb? https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/60 {% endcomment %}

### Compels {% comment %} TODO #59 Write compels: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/59 {% endcomment %}

{% comment %} Make sure to mention that players should be on board and have
fun with compels. If they aren't, then it's wrong.{% endcomment %}

Sometimes the GM will come up with a fun twist that makes a PC's life
difficult. In this case they may compel a PC: the GM explain how a certain
aspect would lead to the story unfolding in a manner unfavorable to the PC and
the player may decide to accept the narration in exchange for a fate point.

The exact way in which things go wrong can be negotiated. If the player
accepts the compel, they receive a Fate Point and the GM narrates the results;
there are no rolls made and no skills are used, the story simply unfolds as
the GM dictates.

The GM can compel a character aspects:

{% comment %} FIXME: This isn't great... But at least it's a start. It probably needs
an complete rewrite. {% endcomment %}

> Tor Byorn's group has snuck into Lord Kellett's chambers looking for a
> missing artifact and have stopped to discus what to do with the large safe
> they found.  While they talk, GM turns to Tor Byorn's player, holds up a
> Fate Point, and says, "Tor Byorn, ~~Why Are We Still Talking?~~ Just break
> the safe open with your hammer! Of course, it'll alert every guard in the
> building to your whereabouts but you can handle them." Tor Byron's player
> smiles and accepts the Fate point, so the GM narrates the result: "Tor Byorn
> walks over and slams his hammer into the safe's door, which makes a loud,
> booming sound that shakes the whole room..."

The GM can also compel story aspects:

> A goblin barge got the drop on the _Angry Pig_ and while the crew works
> frantically to swing the ship around, Naka toss desperate fireball at the
> barge. She rolls `Shoot` against the Goblins' `Agility` as they try to steer
> around the fireball. Naka rolls extremely well while the GM rolls poorly for
> the Goblins.
>
> The GM turns to Naka: "A one in a million shot! Your fireball takes out all
> the rigging, the wheel, and even starts a major fire." The GM writes down
> the aspect ~~Out of control Inferno~~. "The barge should sink right through
> the clouds without causing you any more trouble... Or" he holds up a fate
> point, "Is the flaming wreck now on a collision course, sure to tangle with
> your rigging, and allowing dozens of goblins to spill out onto the _Angry
> Pig's_ deck as you fight the flames?"
>
> Naka's player thinks for a moment, takes the fate point, and calls out to
> the other players "Tor Byorn, I took out their steering! But it looks like
> they're heading right for us! Brace for impact!"

Commit message:

Rewrite compel examples to be more fair to both PCs
Tor Byorn no longer has a "Stop talking" aspect, so it makes more sense
for the pyromaniac to melt the safe.

But then we're picking on Naka in both examples, so rewrite the second
to have Tor Byorn screw up.

_chapters/05-aspects-and-fate-points.md, after:

---
---
## Aspects and Fate Points

{% include macros.html %}

An Aspect is a short, improvised phrase written about the in-game world by a
player or the GM. They are how the narrative interacts with the mechanics of
the game, allowing what makes a good story to drive what happens when the dice
are rolled. Aspects are how the players and the GM come to an agreed upon
understanding of the characters, the setting, and the current scene.

Some Aspects are attached to characters, allowing the player or GM to
express in their own words what makes the character unique and interesting.
Other Aspects refer to the world around the characters, or the story taking
place in it. An Aspect can be a detail within the current scene, a summary of
the overarching plot arc, or literally any other phrase that the players or GM
find pertinent.

Aspects have three roles, each of which is crucial to the game:

- **Aspects are always true**: They are how the table judges what play makes
  sense based on the story. If a character is ~~Grappled~~, they obviously
  cannot run away, swing a weapon, or do anything that requires free movement.
  Similarly, if a character is a ~~Pyromancer of the Dancing Flame~~ then
  their `Shoot` attack will probably take the form of a conjured fireball and
  they would be absolutely helpless if asked to pick up a crossbow.
- **Aspects can be invoked for a bonus on a roll**: If the dice say that
  ~~Sherwood's Greatest Archer~~ is about to miss a tough shot, the
  player can spend a fate point to get a bonus on the roll.
- **Aspects can be compelled to create engaging plot twists**: Twists and
  turns make an engaging story; MiniFate encourages plot twists by
  compensating players when the narrative turns against them. This helps to
  ensure that the players have fun even when their characters aren't.

### Aspects

#### Story Aspects

Any aspect not attached to a character is a story aspect. Like character
aspects, story aspects are always true. Unlike those aspects, story aspects
can change from moment to moment: creating an effect in the fiction is
represented by creating a story aspect and reversing that effect removes the
aspect.

Story aspects can be introduced by the GM to help set a scene. For example,
maybe ~~It's Raining Hard~~ or ~~Everyone Seems On-Edge~~. They can also be
created as a result of skill rolls during gameplay. Quenching a campfire can
create ~~Pitch Blackness~~ while wrestling someone to the ground creates
~~Grappled~~.

The changing or removing an aspect is similar. A character can modify an
aspect by rolling; if a roll is made to break a grapple, the ~~Grappled~~
aspect is destroyed. Story aspects also are removed when they are no longer
relevant, or no longer make sense. When the sun rises, ~~Pitch Blackness~~ is
destroyed.

> Tor Byorn is leading a raiding party to steal a rival crew's cargo right out
> of their storehouse. The GM writes down the aspect ~~Abnormally Dark and
> Rainy~~ as he describes the scene. A few moments later Tor Byron heres a
> whistling shriek as a special arrow misses his head by an inch but finds its
> target in the man behind him.
> 
> Tor Byorn's player asks the GM if he can roll `Insight` to spot the
> assassin, but GM declines; it wouldn't make sense with the story aspect.
> Undiscouraged, the Dwarf starts looking for a way to brighten up the night,
> perhaps with some fire...

#### Hidden Aspects

### Fate Points

#### Declaring Aspects

#### Invoking Aspects

Fate Points can be spent to invoke aspects for bonuses to rolls. To do so, the
player spends a Fate Point, explains how one of the aspects in play would help
the character making the roll or hinder their opponents, and then either adds
+2 to the result of the roll or re-throw all four of their dice. Invoking an
aspect must make sense. The group should agree that the aspect is applicable
with the GM being the final arbiter.

Players may spend Fate points to invoke aspects for their own rolls and the GM
may spend Fate Points to invoke aspects on rolls he makes for his NPCs.
Multiple aspects can be invoked on the same roll, but the same aspect cannot
be invoked more than once on the same roll (even if a fate point is used to
throw the dice again). 

Aspects need not be invoked all at once. A player may see whether they would
succeed with a roll before deciding whether to invoke any aspects. After
invoking an aspect, they may again see what the result would be before
deciding to let it stand or invoking other aspects to gain a further bonus.

If two players are invoking aspects on a roll (for example, if a player's PC
is attack one of the GM's NPCs), then the roll is resolved only after both
players agree that they are finished. Again, each specific aspect may only be
invoked once per roll, so if both players want to invoke the same aspect the
group should decide for which character it would be more beneficial. If no
agreement can be reached, neither player may invoke it.

> The _Angry Pig_ has been impounded for failure to pay import taxes. Tor
> Byorn is trying to convince the officials to let it go in exchange for a
> future payment. After rolling his `Persuasion` against their `Insight`,
> the margin is -1, failure.
>
> Tor Byorn's player holds up one of the poker chips the group uses for fate
> points and says "As you know, I have ~~Lost My Boat in a Game of Cards~~
> before, and I'm not keen to lose another one." The GM takes the fate point
> and Tor Byorn adds +2 to his roll, converting it into a success. The _Angry
> Pig_ is released, for now, and the GM makes a note to come back to Tor
> Byorn's promise later.

{% comment %} TODO #60: is two options dumb? https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/60 {% endcomment %}

### Compels {% comment %} TODO #59 Write compels: https://github.com/MiniFate/MiniFate/issues/59 {% endcomment %}

{% comment %} Make sure to mention that players should be on board and have
fun with compels. If they aren't, then it's wrong.{% endcomment %}

Sometimes the GM will come up with a fun twist that makes a PC's life
difficult. In this case they may compel a PC: the GM explain how a certain
aspect would lead to the story unfolding in a manner unfavorable to the PC and
the player may decide to accept the narration in exchange for a fate point.

The exact way in which things go wrong can be negotiated. If the player
accepts the compel, they receive a Fate Point and the GM narrates the results.
There are no rolls made and no skills are used, the story simply unfolds as
the GM dictates.

The GM can compel a character aspects:

{% comment %} FIXME: This isn't great... But at least it's a start. It probably needs
an complete rewrite. {% endcomment %}

> Tor Byorn and Naka have snuck into Lord Kellett's chambers looking for a
> missing artifact and have stopped to discus what to do with the large safe
> they found. While they talk, the GM turns to Naka's player, holds up a Fate
> Point, and says, "Naka, I am pretty sure you have ~~Never met a problem your
> magic couldn't ignite~~! Just melt the safe. Of course, the whole room will
> be engulfed in flames alerting every guard in the building to your
> whereabouts but you can handle them."
>
> Naka's player smiles and accepts the Fate point, so the GM narrates the
> result: "Naka pushes past Tor Byron while he's talking and blasts the safe
> with a constant stream of flame. The door sags off its hinges, but the
> drapes, carpet, and walls are all burning, sending smoke rolling out the
> windows. You hear a guard shout 'Fire!' and a bell starts ringing..."

The GM can also compel story aspects:

> A goblin barge got the drop on the _Angry Pig_. Tor Byorn leaps to the barge
> to distract the attackers while Naka and the rest of the crew prepare to
> make a run for it.
>
> Tor Byorn lands next to the helm and begins his attack with his trusty magic
> axe. His player rolls well, so the GM narrates: "You smash the helmsmen
> across the deck and cut the wheel in half as you do. The barge is crippled!"
> He writes down a new aspect ~~Spinning in circles~~. "The won't be able to
> follow you now... Or" he holds up a fate point, "Are they now on a collision
> course with the _Angry Pig_, sure to tangle with your rigging and allowing
> dozens of goblins to spill out on to your decks?"
>
> Tor Byorn's player thinks for a moment, takes the fate point, and calls out
> to the other players "Nake, I took out their steering! But it looks like
> they're heading right for you! Brace for impact!"
