# Introduction

**MiniFate** is a tabletop roleplaying game based on [Evil Hat's Fate
Core](http://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/). Like Fate Core it is a simple
system designed to enable collaborative play and story telling.

<!-- Push _ASPECTS **HARD**_! We should have a paragraph like: MF uses skills
for the mechanical crunch, but **EVERY OTHER THING IN THE WORLD** is Aspects!
-->

## An Introduction to Roleplaying

MiniFate is played with one game master (**GM**) and one or more **players**.
Each player takes on the role of a player character (**PC**) which they create
as the game begins. The GM plays the role of the world around the PCs,
including its cast of non-player characters (**NPCs**) which encompass
everything from friendly space pirates to rival adventurers to hideous dungeon
monsters.

The players and the GM work together to tell stories about the adventures of
the PCs. They could tell an action story, where the PCs hack away at
bloodthirsty monsters in defense of civilization. Or it could be a story of
exploration, where the PCs venture into the outer reaches of the solar system
in search of a way to save their home world. Or it could even be a tale of
political intrigue, where PCs take advantage of recent instability to
consolidate power.

The story is played out scene by scene. The GM generally opens with a quick
description; from there, play proceeds conversationally as the players and the
GM improvise back and forth. Players may speak as their PCs and describe their
actions, while the GM illustrates how the NPCs and environment respond.
Players may also ask the GM for specific details to help them immerse
themselves in the PCs' surroundings.

Play is punctuated by die rolls, which mediate the divide between player and
PC; PC choices are made by the players while the success of PC actions is
judged by dice. That is, the player decides which NPCs to attack and which to
barter with while the dice show whether a sword strikes home or a lie rings
true. This dichotomy gives each PC quantitative strengths and weaknesses while
still allowing players the freedom to play their PCs however they like.

MiniFate is a social game. As such, the most important element is
communication. The players and the GM are not opponents (even though the PCs
and NPCs may well be enemies). Everyone has the same goals: telling a good
story and having a good time. If anyone is unsatisfied in either respect, play
should be put on hold to address the issue.

## Materials

MiniFate requires pens to write with and paper to record your character on, a
set of Fate dice, and some tokens to represent Fate points.

Your character sheet is where you record all the information needed to play
MiniFate. It includes your PC's name, Aspects, Skills, Stress Boxes, and
Consequences. As your PC grows throughout the course of their adventures, the
information contained on their character sheet will change to reflect who they
have become. A sample character sheet is included at the end of these rules,
but a MiniFate PC is simple enough that even a handwritten note card will
suffice as their character sheet.

Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six sided dice marked with "-1" on
two sides, "0" on two sides, and "+1" on two sides. You will need four of them
since every roll in MiniFate uses four dice. In order to keep things moving
quickly, it is best to have one set of dice for each player. When rolling them
you add all four dice together and use the final result (so if the four dice
show -1, 0, +1, +1 the final result is +1).

Tokens are useful for keeping track of Fate points. Although in practice
Fate points can be tracked by making tick marks on your character sheet, it
is far more satisfying to have something physical to pass back and forth.
Pokers chips work well, but so do glass beads, or even all those polyhedral
dice you have that you won't need in Fate.
