_loose-notes/06-aspects-fate-points.md, before:

# Aspects and Fate Points

## Aspects

Each character is created with two Aspects (see the character creation rules
in chapter **X**). The player can use these Aspects to showcase whatever they
feel is important about their character, such as their job (**Deep-Woods
Lumberjack**), something important they carry (**Crown of a Deposed King**),
what motivates them (**Lord Kellett Will Pay for the Greywood Massacre**), the
sort of trouble they tend to get into (**Owes a Lot to the Wrong People**),
and so on. These Aspects serve to introduce the character to the rest of the
table. Characters gain more Aspects as time goes on, in order to illustrate
their growth and the new relationships they form (as discussed in the
character advancement rules in chapter **Y**).

<!--TODO: Can they really showcase whatever they want at creation if we have a
high concept and trouble aspect?-->

### Story Aspects

### Hidden Aspects

Most character and story Aspects are visible to everyone at the table, but not
all of them. The GM may choose to keep some Aspects hidden.  Obvious examples
include monster weaknesses (**Missing Scale Over His Heart**), imminent
ambushes (**Those Bushes Look Suspiciously Like Orcs**), and the schemes and
motivations of NPCs (**Lord Grofhurst Is My Unknowing Puppet**). Hidden
Aspects serve more or less as the GM's notes; if invoked or compelled, they
must be revealed to everyone.

Sometimes the story revolves around an NPC with a secret or a hidden
motivation that should be revealed slowly. In this case, it is often best to
start with slightly suspicious public Aspects and then change them as the
players catch on.

> Lord Kellett is a Dragon using his magic to masquerade as the human general
> of the Empire's armies. He starts with the Aspect **Strong as Ten Men**
> which indicates his incredible strength, but is poetic enough to be
> overlooked.  Later, as the PCs observe him performing more and more
> superhuman feats, his Aspect changes to **No Man Could Be As Strong**, still
> indicating his strength, but hinting more directly at its hidden origins.
> Finally, when the players discover his true nature, his aspect is replaced
> with **Strength of a Dragon**.

## Fate Points

Fate Points are a currency that can be spent to assert narrative control over
the game. Both the players and the GM have pools of Fate Points available to
spend. Players start each session with a number of Fate Points equal to their
character's Refresh; additional Fate Points are earned by accepting compels
during the session. The GM start each scene with as many Fate Points as there
are PCs active in the scene. Additionally, there is an unlimited pool of Fate
Points that the players and GM return their Fate Points to when they spend
them, and from which the GM pays players Fate Points for compels.

<!-- TODO: There must be a cleaner way to explain the "unlimited pool" or bank
of Fate points. Maybe start with that, and then explain how the players and GM
get to take points out of it? -->

Fate Points are spent to do one of two things:

1. Invoke an Aspect
2. Declaring an Aspect

### Declaring Aspects

Declaring an Aspects gives the players a chance to narrate a story detail.
The player propose a new aspect and, if the GM accepts it, they pay a Fate
point to bring the Aspect into being. Declaring an Aspect does not grant any
free invocations.

Declaring an aspect can be used to establish a connection with an new NPC
(**The Barkeep Is From My Hometown**) or dictate their motives (**Traitorious
Minon**), give a PC an item they need but might not have on them (**Put My
Hair up with Lockpicks this Morning**), impose unfortunate circumstances on an
enemy (**Knock-off AK-47s Jam a Lot!**), or even change the weather or scenery
(**Sudden Snowstorm**).  The power of declaring an aspect comes from the fact
that Aspects are true and so making the Aspect is just revealing a previously
unknown piece of the story.

The GM may declare aspects without paying a Fate point; narrating the in-game
world and deciding the actions of all the NPCs is specifically the purview of
the GM, it is only players that need to pay for the privilege.

Commit message:

Add section on declaring aspects

_loose-notes/06-aspects-fate-points.md, after:

# Aspects and Fate Points

## Aspects

Each character is created with two Aspects (see the character creation rules
in chapter **X**). The player can use these Aspects to showcase whatever they
feel is important about their character, such as their job (**Deep-Woods
Lumberjack**), something important they carry (**Crown of a Deposed King**),
what motivates them (**Lord Kellett Will Pay for the Greywood Massacre**), the
sort of trouble they tend to get into (**Owes a Lot to the Wrong People**),
and so on. These Aspects serve to introduce the character to the rest of the
table. Characters gain more Aspects as time goes on, in order to illustrate
their growth and the new relationships they form (as discussed in the
character advancement rules in chapter **Y**).

<!--TODO: Can they really showcase whatever they want at creation if we have a
high concept and trouble aspect?-->

### Story Aspects

### Hidden Aspects

Most character and story Aspects are visible to everyone at the table, but not
all of them. The GM may choose to keep some Aspects hidden.  Obvious examples
include monster weaknesses (**Missing Scale Over His Heart**), imminent
ambushes (**Those Bushes Look Suspiciously Like Orcs**), and the schemes and
motivations of NPCs (**Lord Grofhurst Is My Unknowing Puppet**). Hidden
Aspects serve more or less as the GM's notes; if invoked or compelled, they
must be revealed to everyone.

Sometimes the story revolves around an NPC with a secret or a hidden
motivation that should be revealed slowly. In this case, it is often best to
start with slightly suspicious public Aspects and then change them as the
players catch on.

> Lord Kellett is a Dragon using his magic to masquerade as the human general
> of the Empire's armies. He starts with the Aspect **Strong as Ten Men**
> which indicates his incredible strength, but is poetic enough to be
> overlooked.  Later, as the PCs observe him performing more and more
> superhuman feats, his Aspect changes to **No Man Could Be As Strong**, still
> indicating his strength, but hinting more directly at its hidden origins.
> Finally, when the players discover his true nature, his aspect is replaced
> with **Strength of a Dragon**.

## Fate Points

Fate Points are a currency that can be spent to assert narrative control over
the game. Both the players and the GM have pools of Fate Points available to
spend. Players start each session with a number of Fate Points equal to their
character's Refresh; additional Fate Points are earned by accepting compels
during the session. The GM start each scene with as many Fate Points as there
are PCs active in the scene. Additionally, there is an unlimited pool of Fate
Points that the players and GM return their Fate Points to when they spend
them, and from which the GM pays players Fate Points for compels.

<!-- TODO: There must be a cleaner way to explain the "unlimited pool" or bank
of Fate points. Maybe start with that, and then explain how the players and GM
get to take points out of it? -->

Fate Points are spent to do one of two things:

1. Invoke an Aspect
2. Declaring an Aspect

## Compelling Aspects

Compelling an aspect allows the GM to take more narrative control of the story
than normal in exchange for giving the effected players a Fate point.  To
offer a compel, the GM explains how one of the Aspects in play would lead to
story unfolding in a certain, unfavorable way for the PCs. The exact way in
which things go wrong can be negotiated. If they accept the compel, they
receive a Fate Point and the GM narrates the results; there are no rolls made
and no skills are used, the story simply unfolds as the GM dictates.

The GM can compel a character Aspects:

<!-- FIXME: This isn't great... But at least it's a start. It probably needs
an complete rewrite. -->

> Tor Byorn's group has snuck into Lord Kellett's chambers looking for a
> missing artifact and have stopped to discus what to do with the large safe
> they found.  While they talk, GM turns to Tor Byorn's player, holds up a
> Fate Point, and says, "Tor Byorn, **Why Are We Still Talking?** Just break
> the safe open with your hammer! Of course, it'll alert every guard in the
> building to your whereabouts but you can handle them." Tor Byron's player
> smiles and accepts the Fate point, so the GM narrates the result: "Tor Byorn
> walks over and slams his hammer into the safe's door, which makes a loud,
> booming sound that shakes the whole room..."

The GM can also compel story aspects:

> Eyegor is attempting to hack a security terminal to find out where the
> police have taken the rebellion's leader. Before his player can roll to
> attempt the hack, the GM holds up a Fate Point and says, "Because **The
> Government Sees All** <!-- TODO: Come up with a good example for this. -->
